People are rightly asking: How much do we have to endure?
The occupancy rate of the reported intensive care beds currently does not exceed 70 percent in any of the Länder.
Since reports first emerged of the spread of COVID-19, WHO/Europe has moved quickly to provide testing kits and guidance.
The WHO Regional Office for Europe provides technical expertise and guidance, collates and shares information and innovation with all 53 Member States, and works with them around the clock.
Germany has therefore pledged considerable support to its international partners.
In addition, the Chancellor stressed that the Fund can also be used to invest "in digitalisation, in the Green Deal, and in addressing the climate crisis" – in other words to invest in the "future viability of the European Union".
"The exceptional nature of this crisis is causing us to choose an exceptional way forward, because that is necessary in order to find a response to this unprecedented crisis,", explained the Chancellor.
Based on currently available information, WHO does not recommend any specific restrictions for travel or trade.
The G7, like the G20, has expressed its backing for a closely coordinated approach and for the work of the WHO.
What steps can people take when it is difficult to respect a minimum distance of 1.5 metres as required?
We have the scouts, and we have the Bundeswehr which is ready to step in as required."
And that is what we must try to focus on to respond most effectively to this crisis as individuals, family and community members, friends and colleagues,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
While the COVID-19 pandemic is tragically affecting people’s health, lives and livelihoods, it has also had a noticeable positive impact on our environment in just few months.
“From an organizational perspective, dividing the space between women with and without COVID-19, also meant readjusting the personnel for each shift and team.
World Water Day 2020 highlights the essential role of handwashing
They are responding tirelessly to protect and care for you.
He reiterated that engaging communities through listening and communicating effectively with the public, local partners and other stakeholders is essential to respond effectively to the pandemic.
WHO/Europe calls for “unity on all fronts” during briefing for ambassadors as COVID-19 pandemic accelerates
To date, more than five billion euros have already been made available for this purpose.
Despite the current challenges of border closures and limited air transport, WHO continues to send its experts to support countries at their request, wherever it is needed.
The European Public Health Week is taking place at a pivotal moment.
This disease affects people in situations of vulnerability the most, such as our elderly; they should be at the heart of our protection efforts.
“In 2001, I was living in a refugee shelter in Greece, where I began to study Greek.
“I had to start my life from scratch in Kyiv, and I realized I could not just keep doing what I used to.
COVID-19: WHO joins forces with young Global Shapers to disseminate health advice
“We are thankful to the government of Poland for making such a wealth of experience available to Tajikistan, in a spirit of solidarity.”
Based on current information, an animal source seems the most likely primary source of this outbreak, with at least some human to human transmission occurring.
What is the transmission scenario of COVID-19?
Rules of personal conduct
Agreement was reached on Monday in the Committee of the Economic Stabilisation Fund.
Spain, followed by Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany and France still have the highest number of cases.
They also need to lessen our impact on the environment to reduce the risk at its source.
The Ministry of Defense staffs the lines during night shifts, ensuring continuous 24/7 service.
As the COVID-19 outbreak in Belarus enters the community transmission phase, the country needs to introduce community-wide steps to increase physical distancing, according to the recommendations of a team of WHO experts at the end of its assessment of the country’s response to the pandemic.
More people in Germany have become infected with the coronavirus.
Governments and leaders are taking bold steps in communicating the need for these measures, but were also advised to make sure that any partial lifting of restrictions does not result in another rise in cases.
“Due to the nature of our clinical work, we anticipate that respiratory physiotherapy and functional rehabilitation will play a vital role in helping to tackle this crisis,” said Ms Murray.
They will manage this work, and where more support is needed, we will provide it in conjunction with the federal states," declared the Chancellor.
The federal and state governments decided to ease of modify restrictions in the following areas:
The new steps relate in particular to the production of personal protective equipment and masks.
Statement – Physical and mental health key to resilience during COVID-19 pandemic
Dr Kluge expressed that he was pleased that digitalization is an important pillar of MKD 2030, noting that digital health and innovation will be a flagship initiative at WHO/Europe.
In addition, health-care workers need to be able to get necessary supplies quickly, for example while shopping in supermarkets.
Members of the RRT worked in close coordination with national and regional authorities both at central and local levels.
The WHO expert team will be meeting with high-level officials, public health counterparts and health professionals, working together to assess the risks and understand the situation on the ground, and help develop the response mechanisms.
The virus can be beaten back by solidarity within communities, within nations and within our Region, together with individual psychological resilience.
The second phase of COVID-19 prevention measures came rather quickly with the beginning of the virus outbreak in Italy’s Lombardy in late February.
This needs to be complemented by communicating with the public about the risks of alcohol consumption, and maintaining and strengthening alcohol and drug services.
There are 2 types of influenza viruses that cause illness in humans, type A and type B. This season, the 2 seasonal influenza A virus subtypes, A (H1N1)pdm09 and A (H3N2), and 1 of the B viruses, B Victoria lineage, all circulated in the Region in almost equal proportions.
In his announcement, the Director-General underlined, “Let me be clear: describing this as a pandemic does not mean that countries should give up.
At the same time, we must connect with people who are anxious, while appreciating that when shutdowns come they are extremely stressful: people are anxious, families are struggling with working from home and distance schooling or – of particular concern – are anxious as they lose incomes from businesses closing and a contraction in opportunities for work.
A story from Portugal demonstrates how teleconsultations for the scheduled appointments of diabetic patients have been ensuring continued communication and care. “I was quite surprised to see how well it worked from the start,” notes one physician. “It was possible to have effective phone consultations and plan the intervention of the nurse and dietitian.
The Australian eSafety Commissioner has reported a 40% increase in cyberbullying, and Europol has reported disturbing increases in online child sexual abuse and exploitation.
The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy is to be responsible.
However, social media has also contributed to the spread of unverified information that affects perceptions of food safety risks.
These hubs, located in the Balkans, south Caucasus and central Asia, now have laboratory and hospital preparedness experts, and specialists in operation planning for emergency response.
The Chancellor has paid a virtual visit to the Harz District Health Office to thank the staff there, as representatives of the dedicated staff of all health offices in Germany.
This follows an announcement yesterday of €30 million of support promised by the European Commission through WHO/Europe to Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine.
A Working Group on COVID-19 Vaccines and Vaccination is being set up as part of the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on Immunization to provide guidance to ensure equitable access to vaccination, among other objectives.
The Regional Office is working round the clock to equip European countries with guidance and support.
We have local transmission in only four countries in the African Region - Algeria, South Africa, Burkina Faso, and Senegal, and all of these have arisen out of travel from European countries.
Once that vaccine is or vaccines are available, WHO will do everything we can to ensure that any vaccines that become available are distributed in an equitable way.
Secondly, the Regional Director emphasized that health must remain high on political agendas, today and in the future.
But it is also an opportunity because servicing the hotline is about the hands-on learning of risk communication and improving professional skills.”
However, Dr Kluge also said that there are some encouraging results, with Italy seeing a reduction in the number of new cases.
How much will the Fund be worth and what is its goal?
Although the responsibility for protecting the population from infection now is again vested in the federal states, the German government will be monitoring the situation closely, said Angela Merkel.
“The issue facing each and every one of us is how we manage and react to the stressful situation unfolding so rapidly in our lives and communities.
Commitment from the highest levels of government, across every section of our society, is needed,” he adds.
"We need an economic recovery programme in Europe – and this is also in Germany’s best interests," said Angela Merkel.
Since it was established in 1992, the WHO Country Office in Tajikistan has provided technical assistance to the Ministry of Health in strengthening the public health system in the country.
“I hope to return to my colleagues soon to continue the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic,” says senior nurse Viorica Purice, who works in the intensive care unit of the Municipal Clinical Hospital for Children No. 1 in Chisinau, Republic of Moldova.
Franco-German impetus
It is a pleasure to speak to you today.
The human rights and dignity of individuals who give or receive long-term care during the pandemic are impacted.
Under normal working conditions, many hospitals frequently operate at near-surge capacity.
As of this week, there have been over 2 million confirmed cases of COVID-19 across the Region, and tragically, over 175,000 people have died.
Around 57 percent of the intensive care beds registered were occupied on 22 April.
Is it justified?” To answer this, let me set out a few points about the scale of the response in Europe.
2019-nCoV outbreak is an emergency of international concern
Those entitled to custody who suffer a loss of earnings owing to the closure of kindergartens or schools will therefore receive compensation amounting to 67 percent of their lost earnings for a period of up to six weeks (up to 2016 euros).
The aim of the initiative proposed by Germany and France for European economic recovery is to "weather the economic consequences of the pandemic and perhaps come out of it stronger than before".
2020 marks the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife, and COVID-19 has highlighted the critical work undertaken every day by health-care workers around the world.
This includes keeping health-care providers and the general public informed of the continuation of immunization services or of any changes, and reassuring parents that all necessary infection prevention and control measures are being taken to create a safe environment for vaccination during the COVID-19 pandemic.
“Alcohol is consumed in excessive quantities in the European Region, and leaves too many victims.
All I could do to ease his pain was to place a hand on his chest, but he could not even see my face.
This is the European Region’s window of opportunity to prepare in every country for a potential introduction of 2019-nCoV.
This will not be deducted from the assistance available to them under the BAföG student loan scheme.
The vulnerable people in society: people in informal work, people close to poverty, mothers living alone with children – have become even more vulnerable as a result of COVID-19.
The current legal situation means that companies that have agreements to deal with fluctuations in workload must also use these to avoid short-time work, meaning that workers’ working hour balances become negative.
The value of health workers is appreciated.
Those who have been abroad for 48 hours before returning to their place of residence in Germany are required to undergo a mandatory two-week quarantine period in accordance with the provisions of the agreement of 8 April 2020 reached between the Federal Government and the Länder.
The swift and smooth cooperation is unique in post-war German history.
The Federal Government aims to find a similar solution for the tourist industry, particularly for cancelled package holidays and flights.
I am extremely grateful for the knowledge and support we have received from policy-makers, my senior advisory group and experts across the Region to develop and deliver this much-needed work.
Thank you!
New WHO/Europe guidance shows more can be done to protect people in need of long-term care during the COVID-19 pandemic
Evidence showed early in the COVID-19 pandemic that young people seemed to be at low risk of experiencing severe illness.
To compile evidence on the relationships between nature, biodiversity and health, WHO/Europe has established a dedicated Collaborating Centre on Natural Environments and Health at the University of Exeter in the United Kingdom, which will provide a first overview report in 2021.
We have the elderly who are at greatest risk, and a high prevalence of HIV among young adults.
Dr Aylward added that while lockdowns are important for slowing the virus, they cannot stop it.
The first and second Bundesliga divisions will also be able to resume playing as of the second half of May under the approved and tested regulations.
To protect the health of the people and ensure the health system can operate effectively
The Federal Government is also continuing to provide funding for key social organisations, thereby ensuring that their work can go on.
I miss my colleagues and the fast pace of my job, where every second matters to a child’s life.”
Helping children to find ways to express themselves through creative activities, and providing structure in the day – if that is possible – through establishing routines, particularly if they are not going to school anymore, can be beneficial.
Until a vaccine or treatments are at hand for everyone, limiting the virus requires a partnership of people and policy-makers – a social contract that extends beyond any government official’s or leader’s ability to control.
One such country was Spain.
The economic recovery fund is to provide EU budget funds for the worst hit sectors and regions, states the Franco-German declaration.
Statement – Novel coronavirus outbreak: Preparing now as one
WHO works closely with Chinese experts and other partners to better understand the virus and ensure all players work together in collaboration.
The market for protective items is largely concentrated in Asia, and now we have been forced to learn that "we need a degree of sovereignty in this area, or at least a pillar of domestic manufacture".
Four new Member States – Afghanistan, Bahrain, Iraq, and Oman – have reported cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours.
WHO guidance includes 6 criteria for moving to ease lockdown restrictions.
This requires our urgent action.
“In the past, I used to enjoy thinking back to my workday, knowing that challenging moments could be opportunities for growth.
Any return to the new normal needs to be based on a risk assessment, needs to happen gradually and taking into account the WHO European Transition Framework presented to the ministers of health last Friday.
As Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn stressed on Monday, the German government aims to address the fears and uncertainty among the population by explaining what is known about the virus and how they can protect themselves.
The hospitals and their health-care workers have been rewarded with the “Clean hands” certificate of recognition by WHO.
Since 27 February, Romania’s 24h/7 national hotline, Tel Verde (Green Line), has answered over 150 000 calls from Romanians asking for the latest information and advice on COVID-19.
We appreciate their efforts to scale up their COVID-19 response,” said Dr Caroline Brown, WHO mission team lead.
Additional technical support is being provided by WHO/Europe.
As of today, there were 1.78 million confirmed cases, and 160,000 deaths in the Region, accounting for 43% of cases and 56% of deaths globally.
Silvia coordinates the work of 10 000 health-care workers, among whom are approximately 7000 nurses, in the Italian region hit second hardest by the coronavirus.
If you have no alternative, you should be all the more circumspect in complying with hygiene regulations:Wash your hands thoroughly and regularly.Cough and sneeze into your bent elbow or use a paper handkerchief.Do not touch your mouth, eyes or nose with your hands.
I usually come home very tired, but I always try to find some time for my family.
The G20 countries have affirmed their commitment to open markets and have pledged to implement economic and financial measures with a volume of 5.1 trillion US dollars.
I can tell you, the people who work in the health office are truly committed.
Across the Region, cumulative cases have increased by 15% in the past 7 days, and now stand at 1,408,266 cases.
The new start following the coronavirus crisis should result in a healthier world for everyone.
As of today, we have over 80,000 cases of COVID-19 in 34 countries.
Soon we will be able to determine the degree to which the measures put in place in many countries are having an impact.
This rapid expansion of testing capacity is increasing preparedness in each country to reduce the risk of infection and spread of the virus.
The panel also called for continued support for health-care workers, who are working tirelessly in response to the pandemic.
Countries have built their capacity for surveillance, point of entry screening, and working on areas including contract tracing.
These are some of the main points hammered out by the coalition government:
So many livelihoods are at risk.
If they have been interrupted, catch up measures must be taken as quickly as possible.
The digital transformation offers great potential for promoting social engagement.
Now, more than ever, I call for solidarity between countries.
The Fund follows the basic philosophy that underpins the cohesion policy the EU has practiced for many years: reducing economic and social imbalances to enable the European economy to grow together more effectively.
I want to hear discharged patients say, ‘I have survived COVID-19’.
Assistance for small and medium companies via the European Investment Bank.
“From the very start, we organized meticulous training on preventing infection, which also helped fight the growing fear among health-care professionals.
However, my message today remains one of caution.
This collaboration is bolstered by various United Nations agencies who are also working with WHO to provide support to countries either managing or preparing for COVID-19.
Immunization is one of the most effective health tools we have, protecting children from many diseases that would otherwise be debilitating or deadly.
Together with WHO/Europe, we aim to make the chatbot a reliable source of information and advice related to COVID-19”.
The coronavirus pandemic and the measures adopted by the German government and the German Bundestag affect almost every aspect of life.
Dr Kluge added that there is evidence that investment in health in North Macedonia is benefitting the national economy, with a positive impact on local employment rates, working conditions and household-level income.
In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, this question was central to the Petersberg Climate Dialogue, organised for the first time this year as a video conference.
Although weekly cases have almost halved since April, the risk remains very high.
Every year, defective infection prevention and control (IPC) practices in everyday health care cause harm to millions of patients worldwide.
“To address the health risks caused by COVID-19, I became part of a contact tracing team, helping patients recall everyone whom they had been in close contact with during the time they were infectious.
The emergency relief package of the German government still needs to be approved by the European Commission.
The studies also reveal that (Dutch) children from disadvantaged backgrounds are hit harder by the school shutdown, and should receive extra care when schools re-open.
How to make health systems more resilient to COVID-19 and other crises
The financial support includes a European Stability Mechanism contingent credit line, a new European Investment Bank guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and the new EU initiative SURE, to provide financial support for short-time work.
“In Bulgaria, 7 women have lost their lives at the hands of a partner or family member since COVID-19 confinement measures were set in place.
Package for the future: A total of 50 billion euros under the programme is earmarked for a package for the future with tax breaks for research into the development of quantum computing and artificial intelligence.
Fortunately, there have been no cases registered in Volnovakha so far.
Ensuring vulnerable people have access to the public health system is very gratifying and we continue our work despite COVID-19.
A public health emergency of international concern requires a global response that includes measures taken inside prisons and other closed settings.
To prevent the loss of numerous jobs as a result of the crisis, the Federal Government has broadened the eligibility criteria for reduced hours compensation benefit and facilitated access to it for a temporary period until the end of 2020.
The ministers of finance had already endorsed an assistance package totalling 540 billion euros.
We are all called upon to set aside our own interests, to protect high-risk groups and reduce the burden on the healthcare system.
It is also an example of global collaboration and solidarity.
This training was designed specifically for pharmacists because customers rely on us for medical advice and they also ask us where they should go to seek other medical services.
Soon after the competition, I was appointed the province’s chief nurse.”
Emergency measure as of 1 June
Today we are offered a window of opportunity; today we must grab it to make the region and the world safer.
This is at the core of their mandate.
In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia or severe acute respiratory syndrome, particularly in those with other chronic underlying health conditions, and even death. (Note: Advice on entry screening updated on 25 January 2020.)
Many countries across the WHO European Region have introduced strict lockdown measures, advising people to follow physical distancing guidance.
Silvia Mambelli: how the COVID crisis is uniting the Italian health workforce
Then, during the next phase of the pandemic, health protection can be compatible with steps to enable the economy to make up lost ground, to protect jobs, and to allow social life we can all enjoy.
The ordinance makes full use of the authorisations laid out in the "Act to enhance the regulations governing short-time work allowance for a limited period as a result of the crisis" (Gesetz zur befristeten krisenbedingten Verbesserung der Regelungen für das Kurzarbeitergeld).
Attending the 2nd National Health Forum last week alongside North Macedonian Minister of Health Dr Venko Filipche, WHO Regional Director for Europe Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge welcomed the reforms taking place in the country’s health-care system.
We at the WHO Regional Office for Europe are working with you 24/7 to control this pandemic.
Rather, many older people have multiple underlying conditions which require labour and time-intensive care, whether they live in their homes or attend day centres – for example, for socializing or physical exercise – or communal settings.
The global community should also provide support to low- and middle-income countries in their response to this event, and facilitate their access to diagnostics, potential vaccines and therapeutics.
It increases transparency and support to countries with weaker health systems, and accelerates research and development of vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics.
This is an important observation for the European Region: of the top 30 countries with the largest percentage of older people, all but one (Japan) are our Member States in Europe.
Addressing uncertainties
Health workers are one of the fundamental pillars of our health systems and of the core capacities outlined in the International Health Regulations.
This assistance is also to take the form of direct emergency aid for national measures implemented by our partner countries.
In conclusion, Dr Moeti echoed earlier comments, calling for strategies to tackle COVID-19 that are evidence-based and “mutually supportive and synergistic”.
It is also advised that stores display infographics demonstrating good handwashing techniques and the correct use of face masks.
Germany’s economy, welfare state, healthcare system and society have also come under massive pressure.
“The COVID-19 pandemic has exacted an enormous human cost and demanded that health systems across the Region mount effective and inclusive responses that leave no one behind,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
To bolster the domestic economy, most Länder are setting up supplementary support programmes.
The COVID-19 pandemic has required countries around the globe to repurpose their influenza surveillance systems to also detect the COVID-19 virus.
We cannot afford to leave anyone behind.
Almost 235,000 holidaymakers have returned to Germany since then.
Funds to the tune of up to two billion euros have been earmarked to this end.
Contact restrictions remain in place
There are many types of non-contact and indirect abuse and neglect.
While the crisis rightfully requires high-level attention by governments, businesses and the public, the European Region cannot afford to lose its focus on other health threats and must continue to improve food safety.
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Israel are taking swift actions tailored to their context.
Every country is mapping its way to a new normal, and every country is in a different place.
The high number of COVID-19-related infections and deaths in care facilities and other long-term care settings has alarmed decision-makers, health care providers and communities.
The use of this app should be voluntary and comply with existing legal requirements, such as applicable data protection and data security standards.
The virus can be beaten thorough cooperation and harmonization of the measures each of your governments are taking.
The overriding objective in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic is to slow down the spread of infections.
“Soon, all the midwives felt safe in exercising their duties and their thoughts turned to questions of how to make expecting women, COVID-19 positive and negative alike, feel safe in our hands and offering them the possibility of a positive vaginal birth experience.
This presents a significant challenge for the Italian authorities.
A streamlined response to COVID-19 in the context of NCDs is important to optimize public health outcomes and reduce the burden of this pandemic on individuals, vulnerable groups, key workers and society.
It is right for everyone to work within the framework of their responsibilities, said Angela Merkel.
This is demonstrated by the German stability programme for 2020 which has now been adopted by the Cabinet.
“With the international day, WHO recognizes nurses and midwives as frontline heroes who deserve acknowledgment and appreciation, and highlights their important role in delivering clean care for infection prevention and control,” said Dr Jihane Tawilah, WHO Representative in North Macedonia.
This was necessary to contain the spread of the virus, while also ensuring continued essential health-care services, such as time-sensitive surgeries.
"Affording the people maximum protection"
They are well placed within their communities to offer advice and reinforce messages about hand and respiratory hygiene and physical distancing.
The path of transition to a “new normal” is not an easy one - complexity and uncertainty lie ahead.
Italy has reported a rapid increase in cases of laboratory-confirmed coronavirus (COVID-19) since 21 February 2020.
Now, as more of us are living and working or studying in the same space, it is even more important to take active breaks to move, stretch and make the time to focus on our mental well-being.
Basic measures were encouraged to limit the risk of catching or spreading the virus, including practising social distancing – staying at least 1 metre from anyone who is coughing or sneezing – as well as washing hands.
Public health authorities and health practitioners should provide travellers in or from affected areas (currently Wuhan City) with information to reduce the general risk of acute respiratory infection, by: WHO is following the evolution of the outbreak and revising its guidance based on the latest developments.
Data collected will contribute to the development of a report on the response to COVID-19 in prisons and other places of detention.
Today, it is just over four calendar months since the first cases of novel coronavirus were officially reported in the WHO European Region.
Bus and railway companies are also to make a declaration of undertaking to use the disembarkation cards on all cross-border bus and rail routes.
Transport operators are to keep passengers informed of the latest developments, and explain what they should do if they develop symptoms.
While the number of cases in the European Region is growing, 90% of cases remain in China.
HealthBuddy will be available for use on national health authorities’ websites with country-specific information.
We now have over 300 confirmed cases and four deaths.
Germany is supporting its European partners. In recent weeks, over 200 patients from Italy, France and Spain have been transferred to German hospitals for treatment in order to ease the burden on intensive care capacities in these countries.
“GOARN and other partners have to be proactive in developing preparedness and readiness plans whilst the ongoing crisis is far from being over,” said Dr Josep Jansa, principal expert on preparedness at the ECDC.
The global and regional emergency response leads pointed to the importance of preparedness and solidarity, warning against unnecessary travel restrictions and cancellations of events.
This makes it all the more important to pay even more attention to hygiene and conduct rules.More and more states and local authorities are making it mandatory for people to cover their nose and mouth in public transport or when shopping.
“Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, ventilators are increasingly needed.
“Now we are facing another kind of challenge – COVID-19.
They are backed up by a support group that helps formulate answers to specific, technically complex questions, in collaboration with other epidemiologists, health promotion specialists, lawyers and scientists.
Others are behaving over-cautiously, which continues to limit their social interactions and access to health services, for example.
During these 28 days, cumulative cases in the European Region have increased over 3-fold, to more than 1.3 million – this is 48% of cases globally.
The Corona pandemic is also impacting on many students and academics with limited-term employment contracts.
My thoughts are with you.
The disruptive effects of COVID-19 provide us all with an opportunity.
WHO has many successful partnerships, but one in particular stands out.
In some federal states it is already mandatory to wear protective masks in shops and on public transport.
Case numbers across the Region continue to climb.
This should help them act effectively.
The initiative has so far enjoyed the support of UNICEF, UNDP, UN Women and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
We cannot risk seeing the tragedy of COVID-19 mirrored in a second catastrophe of ill health from other causes.
Support for local authorities: Federal government will increase the share it pays of the costs of accommodation for people in need, will compensate half of the drop in company tax levied by local authorities, and will strengthen both public transport and the health sector.
What has worked in China, in Singapore, in Korea, may not be directly transferable to countries of the European Region.
As of the morning of 19 March, over 75 000 cases were reported in the European Region, with 4 countries – Italy, Spain, France and Germany – accounting for over 77% of all European cases and with case numbers rising rapidly.
Our priority became tackling that fear by adhering to guidelines, including those from WHO, and putting a new structure in place that would allow us to continue the vital work we do,” explains Midwife Coordinator Iliana Colonna, from the Infermi Hospital in Rimini, Italy.
“There have been expressions of solidarity from everyone in society.
Reports suggest that 2019-nCoV infection can cause mild to severe disease and be fatal in some.
As we consider transition, we must acknowledge there are no ‘quick wins’.
I would like to conclude by thanking the European Union Member States and the European Union for the generosity in response to WHO’s global call for resource allocation.
Reduced hours compensation benefit can also be applied for if only ten percent of employees in a company are affected and without first having to accrue a negative balance in time accounts.
In addition, WHO/Europe’s experts have collaborated with Portuguese chef Nuno Queiroz Ribeiro to include three recipes, with recommended ingredients, that are easy to cook at home.
The federal states will ensure that this is implemented.
I have been personally assured that your fellow citizens are all working hand in hand and making every effort to contain and prevent transmission of the disease.
It is imperative that we do not let down our guard.
In some countries, restaurants and take-away offers are being limited and some items in supermarkets are becoming less available.
Children may find that they want to be closer to their parents, make more demands on them, and, in turn, some parents or caregivers may be under undue pressure themselves.
The German government has adopted draft legislation to this end.
Clean hands save lives.”
“I consider myself to be patient, compassionate and respectful of patients and colleagues and try to place the common good above my own.
With the CEI Executive Secretariat providing coordination and support, and WHO/Europe contributing scientific advice to the discussions, the twice monthly meetings will serve as a forum for CEI countries to express their needs and priorities, and establish common understanding of internationally recommended strategies that are rooted in science and are evidence-based.
The COVID-19 pandemic has proven once again that refugees and migrants can contribute to achieving universal health coverage.
This requires frequent transparent communication with the public and strong community engagement to maintain the public’s trust in the system to safely meet their essential needs and to control infection risk in health facilities.
As governments lift restrictions, you, the people become the main actors.
Preventing COVID-19 outbreak in prisons: a challenging but essential task for authorities
The EMTs and rapid response mobile laboratories will operate at health-care facilities across the entire country, including its more remote areas.
It is through 1) transparent knowledge sharing; 2) tailored on-the-ground support and 3) steadfast solidarity that we will beat this virus, and come out stronger, together.
So many livelihoods are at risk.
This means that public health officials can rapidly respond to reports of suspect cases and identify contacts at high risk; hospitals have the necessary equipment and guidance to manage cases while protecting health-care staff and other patients from infection; and the public understands the level of risk posed by the virus and how to minimize it.
Leaving no one behind and strengthening the leadership capacities of national health authorities are fundamental to my vision for health across the European Region – “United action for better health”.
HealthBuddy, a multilingual interactive chatbot, is the newest tool to be launched as a resource for countries in Europe and central Asia in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Together, across sectors and society, we must act:
The joint delegation observed and discussed all measures taken at the points of entry, including temperature screening on entry, appropriate management of suspected cases and dissemination of risk communication materials advising inbound travellers on when and where to seek medical care if needed.
Whilst the risk across all countries in the European Region remains very high, it is in the east of the European Region where we are seeing continued rising case counts.
Focus on humanitarian health assistance
WHO also supports the creation of a global pool for rights on data, knowledge, technologies to make more affordable and accessible any new techniques, new technologies, new vaccines, and new treatments so that the world can respond as one to defeat COVID-19.
Investment is to be encouraged in particular in areas connected to environmental and digital transformation.
Support includes the provision of necessary PPE, but Dr Nabarro also pointed to the importance of social support to ensure that health-care workers can go to work safe in the knowledge that their families are being looked after, for example with childcare.
Any steps to transition towards ‘a new normal’ must be guided by public health principles, together with economic and societal considerations.
At the conference, governments from over 40 states announced their financial contribution to the fight against COVID-19.
The national protection measures adopted by many EU member states have led to considerable restrictions in some cases.
The Federal Government wishes to prevent the insolvency of healthy companies during the crisis.
The Central District Hospital in the town of Volnovakha, just 34 km from the frontline of Ukraine’s military conflict, provides specialized medical care to more than 150 000 people.
These measures are part of the joint policies and programmes for which the EU is responsible and will be financed from the EU budget.
The services of Green Line are also available for Romanians living abroad via another dedicated phone number.
A number of countries are reporting a slight increase in new cases after and during the adjustment of some public health measures.
Progress is being made in the procurement of personal protective equipment by the Federal Government and the Länder.
Held every year on 21 May, the World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development is an opportunity to celebrate not only the richness of the world’s cultures, but also the importance of cultural competency and intercultural dialogue within health-care systems.
I want to stress that the demand and the need for our support is growing.
These are deaths above and beyond what we would have expected normally at this time of the year.
To help countries listen to and understand their communities and ensure that their COVID-19-related response activities are relevant and actionable, WHO/Europe just launched a behavioural insights tool for rapid, flexible and cost-effective monitoring of public knowledge, risk perceptions, behaviours and trust.
The repayment term for the loan is up to 10 years, with the option of two grace years.
The Director-General accepted the committee’s advice and issued its advice to States Parties as temporary recommendations under the IHR.
This is one of the key recommendations in a series of new technical guidelines created by WHO/Europe, looking at the practical ways in which health systems can respond better to COVID-19.
A move away from fossil fuels
The Federal Government has continuously expanded capacities for effective and comprehensive testing in order to minimise the risk of undetected outbreaks.
Initially we were very concerned about the link between China and African countries, it is one of Africa’s top economic partners, but the majority of cases here have been sporadic importations mainly from Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the USA.
During the 10-day support trip, the 8-person EMT visited infectious disease services in the capital, Bishkek, as well as travelling to 6 hospitals in the southern regions of Osh and Jalal-Abad.
This is a sign of the engagement of health professionals in outbreak preparedness and response that is at the cornerstone of effective control.
WHO is currently reviewing the estimates of intimate partner violence in Bulgaria and in all WHO Member States.
General health system strengthening will do much to help countries prepare for and withstand shocks.
Dear colleagues and friends,
Children are likely to be experiencing worry, anxiety and fear, and this can include the types of fears that are very similar to those experienced by adults, such as a fear of dying, a fear of their relatives dying, or a fear of what it means to receive medical treatment.
The role of the public sector leaving no one behind cannot be overestimated.
World Food Safety Day: Unsafe food continues to affect millions in Europe during COVID-19 pandemic
People who are suffering from physical and/ or mental disability, often at higher ages are particularly vulnerable to this virus.
The coronavirus pandemic is a major challenge for the economy and the labour market.
Dr Kluge highlighted that throughout the pandemic WHO/Europe has provided:
From the first days of the epidemic, there were concerns about prisons, as infection outbreaks in such closed settings can have an amplifying effect on the spread of the virus throughout the country.
“I have witnessed first-hand how diverse the nursing profession is.
I call on all countries to keep a firm grip on the strategies that we know work to halt this virus – identifying, isolating, testing, tracing contacts and quarantining – whilst constantly monitoring the effectiveness of the measures in place.
The Federal Foreign Office therefore launched the largest ever repatriation campaign for German tourists.
The urgent need for a COVID-19 vaccine underscores the pivotal role immunizations play in protecting lives and economies.
Today, while governments are taking stronger measures to tackle the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, businesses are being temporarily closed, and newswires are full of information about the disease.
Due to travel restrictions imposed in the wake of COVID-19, experts can no longer travel to countries to advise on public health, so they have embraced new ways of working.
A quarter of countries also reported novel supply chains and/or dispensing approaches for NCD medicines.
We cannot allow the impact of COVID-19 to be amplified by neglecting other vital health protection measures.
In the past month, about 400 new colleagues, among whom are many new graduates, have joined us.
But, said the Chancellor, we must still be cautious.
These posts have so far reached 12 000 people and the aim is to target 100 000 individuals with WHO-sourced information about COVID-19 by the end of May.
This is a global emergency, and you have stepped up to make it a global response.
So we will need to think differently about how to achieve containment within this context.
The COVID-19 outbreak was first detected in Wuhan, China and is now rapidly evolving in several countries in the European Region and other regions of the world.
This also includes reaching out to the right sectors and partners, engaging health professionals and communities, supporting countries in need, and sharing information in a transparent manner to facilitate knowledge and action.
To this end, each and every individual must keep their distance from one another and restrict their social contacts to a minimum.
I do appreciate that during COVID-19 countries have found new and innovative ways of reaching children, using temporary vaccination points, for example.
It is crucial that we all abide by the principles of international cooperation, collaboration and transparency, and acting on a no regrets basis.
North Macedonia has also launched 2 primary health care (PHC) pilot sites as part of the PHC reforms begun last year with support from WHO.
While these measures appear to be having an impact on curbing virus spread, the panel also recognized their significant social and economic impact.
Mental health and psychological resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic
I guarantee we are making sure your contributions are being used efficiently and effectively.
The Europe Region has successfully strengthened its role in international outbreak response over the past decade.
If a company sees orders decline as a result of difficult economic trends, it can announce short-time work, if a minimum of 10 per cent of its workforce could be affected by the lack of work.
Make no mistake, despite this spring weather, we remain in the midst of a storm.
We are all together in this.
Protecting nature protects health – lessons for the future from COVID-19
Again, this initiative is only possible thanks to the invaluable information-sharing and support from countries.
This means striking a balance between the requirements of residents and their families, and ensuring that services are run safely and staff are protected and well supported.
Her Royal Highness, The Crown Princess of Denmark, and Patron of WHO/Europe also addressed the briefing, thanking ambassadors for attending and also expressing her appreciation for the work of both health workers and WHO staff responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Chancellor also stressed that it is important for all parts of the international community to do their bit if global climate action is to succeed – by moving away from fossil fuels to embrace renewables and ensure greater energy efficiency.
The health of doctors and nurses is a decisive condition for overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic.
To master the pandemic through international cooperation.
To do so, Italian leadership has had to make difficult decisions, placing health above economic prosperity.
Through our 30 country offices, we are working shoulder to shoulder with the ministries of health, across governments and with the whole of society.
The COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences can only be overcome through close international coordination.
Due to strict restrictions on movement and hotels being shut, she has had to postpone her visit until lockdown measures are eased.
The Federal Government is preventing high repayments in the events sector, which would place enterprises under extreme financial pressure, by introducing a voucher scheme for a limited period.
For all countries, the final aim is the same: stop transmission and prevent the spread of the virus in order to save lives.
I hope we can apply part of this for the future.”
Let it be clear – every community in every nation must trace contacts, test suspected cases, isolate patients, and guide people on the ways to protect themselves, and reduce the rate of transmission.
In addition, Dr Tedros stressed that now is the time to strengthen existing organizations and called on countries to invest in WHO and provide the tools needed to ensure the world is not in a vulnerable state in case of future pandemics.
Using this you can see what governments, health authorities and others are doing, and take a deeper dive to find out about the different approaches countries are taking on specific issues - such as expanding health workforce surge capacity, or the different approaches to testing across the Region, for example.
Recognizing this, WHO/Europe and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) moved quickly following identification of the novel virus on 7 January 2020 to identify laboratory needs and capacities in the European Region.
Management skills will help me make a difference in nursing.”
The next conference on 6 May will assess the strategy submitted by the ministers of cultural affairs, youth and sport, and clear decisions will be taken regarding how and in what sequence schools, nurseries and possibly certain sporting activities can resume operations, stressed the Chancellor.
They can reduce the risk of infection.
Kyrgyzstan, alongside 16 other countries in the WHO European Region, received 1300 laboratory testing kits over 3 months from WHO/Europe.
We are, however, preparing to treat COVID-19 patients.
Existing programmes are to be supplemented and additional funding is to be made available for public venture capital investors.
Over the next six months, 130 promising projects will be promoted and receive financial support within the framework of an implementation programme.
We can only imagine their increased levels of stress during these times, yet, they are making great sacrifices for the benefit of the broader community.
WHO expert mission to Belarus recommends physical distancing measures as COVID-19 virus transmits in the community
Focusing on perinatal health service delivery, the new model aims to ensure quality, appropriate care at the right health facility and at the right time for all mothers and newborns.
The German government is to provide 300 million euros in humanitarian aid.
WHO has published guidance for policy-makers and national health systems on actions that can be taken to address violence against women during the COVID-19 response, produced a set of Q&As on violence against women during the pandemic, and developed an information sheet together with UN Women on the collection of data on violence against women and girls during COVID-19.
This way they knew they could trust our medical background.”
I feel rewarded by the expression of solidarity from everyone; it is gratifying to read that people recognize our role – they truly see us and our work now.
In every instance it is important to take a careful look at the big picture and ensure that we do everything to prevent any relapse and return to a more difficult phase. It is important to ensure that we move forward step by step.
Perhaps a less reported, but equally alarming figure is that since early March, more than 159,000 excess deaths, coinciding with the pandemic, have been reported from 24 European countries.
In conclusion - We remain in the eye of the storm.
As leaders learnt in the Great Depression, to demand collective sacrifice you must offer a social contract that benefits everyone.
It is about securing jobs and getting the economy back on its feet, she said.
We have provided expert support with 40 in country missions over the past month.
The aim is to achieve an agreement by autumn so that the programme can come into effect on 1 January 2021 having been approved by the European Parliament and the national parliaments of member states.
I also try and acknowledge upsetting thoughts when they occur and discuss them with people around me.
We have inherited the European rights, values and opportunities that define us from the generations that came before – so we must care for them.
The survey showed that in 81% of responding countries rehabilitation care has been completely or partially disrupted, and in 47% of responding countries palliative care has been completely or partially disrupted.
I am immensely proud of the group of people that make up our incident management team and the staff that support them.
Here, we must maintain the full arsenal of measures we have to suppress transmission.
There is still a risk, but I need to continue working, not only to put bread on the table, but also to help my country.
Temperature screening should always be accompanied by dissemination of risk communication messages at points of entry and proper mechanism for data collection and analysis.
For almost four weeks, since 12 April, we have seen a decrease in the number of cases reported per day in the European Region.
They are likely to have them too and we may be better able to find solutions collectively.
The German government will continue to do all it can to contain the spread of the virus as far as possible.
“Now the most pressing task I face daily is hiring more nurses.
The Chancellor addressed her plea to everyone in Germany to keep rigorously to the rules, regulations and restrictions in place.
Based on a thorough review of all response areas, including surge capacity at hospitals and interactions between emergency services and the health system, the plan was further adapted to make current preparedness efforts more effective.
COVID-19 hotline in Romania provides up-to-date public advice with WHO support
By 2050 Europe is to become the first climate-neutral continent.
Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for the African Region, joined the briefing from Brazzaville in the Republic of the Congo.
Although data is scarce, Member States are reporting up to a 60% increase in emergency calls by women subjected to violence by their intimate partners in April this year, compared to last.
Alcohol does not protect against COVID-19; access should be restricted during lockdown
These issues include tackling noncommunicable diseases, providing quality care for mothers and babies, and ensuring equal access to quality primary health care.
A WHO comment published in The Lancet highlights the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on refugees and migrants and the need to include them in outbreak response and readiness.
Novel coronavirus emerges in China
During the five-day mission the team visited national and regional hospitals, laboratories, discussed the national plan to detect and treat people with COVID-19.
We have no vaccine.
On 28 May 2020, WHO held another webinar in a series to facilitate the exchange of country experience.
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres agreed with the Chancellor that there must be a price for CO2 emissions.
Now longer-term support is needed for recovery.
Nurse anaesthetist Larysa Belykova faces the challenges of military conflict and COVID-19 in Ukraine
This year’s World Health Assembly heard from a range of high-level representatives, including many from the WHO European Region, such as the President of the European Commission, the German Chancellor, the French President, the Italian Prime Minister and the President of the Government of Spain.
Now more than ever, supporting and motivating each other is important.
No one is safe until everyone is safe.
In the light of the rapid escalation of COVID-19 in the WHO European Region and its subsequent characterisation by WHO as a pandemic , the 27th Standing Committee of the WHO Regional Committee for Europe, at its third session, in Copenhagen on 11-12 March, expresses:
For the children of key workers, emergency childcare is being offered in kindergartens and schools.
They are the original source of the clean air, water and food that support healthy human societies.
As of 20 April 2020, individual shops and also libraries at universities can reopen in most Länder, provided they meet conditions for hygiene, control access and take steps to prevent queues from forming.
With almost every country in the Region affected by the pandemic to a greater or lesser degree, countries need to work together to reduce the impact on society and to build resilience going forwards.
Common observed symptoms include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.
Some countries in the Region have already experienced importations of the COVID-19 virus and small clusters of cases.
According to estimates from countries in the European Region, up to half of those who have died from COVID-19 were resident in long-term care facilities.
Which brings me to my second message – Governments and authorities should employ ways to listen to their populations, earn trust and plan their pandemic response measures informed by this.
An aircraft carrying medical specialists from Poland, WHO experts and a tonne of medical equipment landed in Dushanbe on 7 June, marking the beginning of a large-scale COVID-19 response operation in Tajikistan, involving emergency medical teams (EMTs) and mobile laboratories coordinated by WHO/Europe.
If, during these unprecedented times, local COVID-19 response measures cause temporary interruptions of routine immunization services, countries should plan to resume immunization services as quickly as possible after the situation stabilizes.
In 2019 over 100,000 people across all age groups were infected, as a result of this and long-standing immunization gaps.
The information received from the users will be monitored by WHO/Europe and UNICEF ECARO experts so they can set the record straight through the chatbot and other communication channels.
Additionally, WHO/Europe is deploying three missions to Azerbaijan, Ukraine and Montenegro in the coming days as part of preparedness and response activities for COVID-19.
Up to a ceiling of 800,000 euros. KfW loans totalling up to three months turnover will be awarded, with 100 per cent exemption from liability.
The Green Line is a prime example of collaboration across different sectors.
UNFPA ambassador and pop singer, Edis Görgülü, shared personal insights along with advice from WHO when he urged his teenage fans to look after themselves during the COVID-19 pandemic.“This pandemic has deeply affected our societies.
The IHR are the mechanism for the global community to prevent, detect, prepare for and respond to health emergencies.
There are three priorities, right now, for all countries and their governments. I will focus on the first because it is so important:
Information on support services is being advertised more widely both online and locally, for example in drugstores and supermarkets.
Cultural facilities including museums, exhibitions, galleries, monuments, zoos and botanic gardens are also to be allowed to open subject to certain conditions.
The number of tests carried out per week throughout Germany more than tripled in the same period from about 125,000 to up to 400,000.
Members and advisors of the committee reviewed the current situation over teleconference.
I urge countries to maintain immunization service delivery and drive demand for vaccination, through the life-course, even at this difficult time.
This policy brief highlights the key features of resilience and provides examples of strategies which have been applied in different countries.
The polish medics’ experience from virus-hit Italy enabled a valuable transfer of knowledge and skills and a fast track to improving the care of patients battling with COVID-19 in Kyrgyzstan.
My thoughts and deepest sympathy are with the families and loved ones of those we have lost.
Through our sub-regional hubs, 8 additional missions were made.
Closed schools, home learning, isolation and quarantine measures have turned the daily life of students and their teachers upside down.
When measures are eased, cases should not exceed a sustained reproductive factor of 1, and should ideally remain below 1.
We expect that in the days and weeks ahead, the number of cases and the number of deaths will continue to rise rapidly, and we must escalate our response in such a way as to take pre-emptive action wherever possible.
They met virtually to develop solutions to challenges arising as a result of the COVID-19 crisis.
Another issue discussed by the Corona Cabinet is travel into Germany, reported Angela Merkel.
Life as we knew it has come to a halt.
As a result various lessons have been learned, and policy guidelines and tools developed.
The experts provided the Belarusian authorities with guidance on epidemiology and surveillance, laboratory services, patient management, infection prevention and control, and risk communication.
The Franco-German initiative applies this principle to the consequences of the coronavirus crisis. Since the economic consequences vary from one member state to another, the pandemic could be a threat to cohesion within the EU.
This is helping to meet the growing demand for anaesthetics and other medicines.
But there is one factor that’s common to all settings: the need to mobilize all of society as part of the response—starting from the highest level with strong political leadership from the capital, and reaching all the way to far-flung communities who also need to feel ownership of the response.Secondly, as many health issues do, COVID-19 challenges us to focus on the vulnerable.
In addition to contributing to increased fear, anxiety, financial stress and alcohol consumption, the COVID-19 pandemic has challenged the ability of health and social services to connect with and support victims of violence – a herculean task even when not hampered by a global pandemic.
Other countries have reported similar outreach efforts, although often without personal protective equipment when limited supplies are reserved for frontline health services.
Decision-makers on all levels must follow the guiding principle: transition gradually and do it carefully.
Throughout the press briefing, Dr Aylward noted the heroism of frontline workers in health systems who are working to curb one of the most challenging public health issues of our time.
In the face of such an alarming situation that is exacting a heavy toll on our health-care services and vulnerable individuals, there can be no doubt that the time-honoured precautionary principle needs to guide our decisions.
The cost of failing to prevent and manage COVID-19 in long-term care environments can be high for older individuals who get sick and for those in close contact with them, but also for health systems.
Working largely unseen, in the context of routine disease surveillance or in the event of acute disease outbreaks, laboratories are a vital link in the chain of activities required to keep populations safe from diseases.
A joint task force has been established by WHO/Europe and the Central European Initiative (CEI) to respond to COVID-19 and step up regional coordination to mitigate the impact of the pandemic.
The application of the concept of resilience is far from new and relates to multiple areas, ranging from physics to human psychology.
Dissemination of accurate information is critical to ensuring that older people have clear messages and resources on how to stay physically and mentally healthy during the pandemic and what to do if they should fall ill.
Adverse impacts to be cushioned unbureaucratically
Bulgaria has adopted a national programme to prevent and protect women and children against domestic violence.
Dr Patrick O’Connor, the mission lead, said on arrival: “Our team has reached Tajikistan, overcoming deployment logistics challenges, but with a strong determination to provide WHO support where it is needed, to the country and the people.
I would also like the team here to brief you on the situation as it stands right now.
It is important for all support projects not to lose sight of the Sustainable Development Goals.
In the case of a temporary interruption of routine immunization, countries are urged to develop solid plans for catch-up vaccination and create comprehensive lists of all children who have missed their scheduled vaccine doses.
ECOFIN also adopted the regulation for temporary support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (SURE), to help finance national short-time work schemes so that workers retain an income and companies survive the crisis.SURE is part of the 540 billion euro triple safety net for jobs and workers, businesses and member states agreed by the Eurogroup on 9 April 2020.
We must not lose sight of the price the world pays for these emissions, he declared.
“We are often asked about the mode of transportion from the airport to home isolation, about procedures for repatriation, about locations for self-isolation, or about medical leave certificates or other legal forms,” says Dr Alexandra Cucu from the National Instiute of Public Health. “Mask use, special measures for chronic patients, continuity of care for people with chronic illness – such as for oncology patients and cardiac patients – are other examples of issues that we answer.
Photo story – COVID-19: Kyrgyzstan scaling up its preparedness, readiness and response capacities
Reports of distrust in authorities and conspiracy thinking are fueling movements against social and physical distancing.
48 countries across the WHO European Region are adjusting their public health and social measures.
Now, 41 countries in the Region have the capacity to test for the virus.
It has deployed more than 2300 experts to help characterize and control disease outbreaks and to support countries to respond to natural disasters and humanitarian emergencies.
These include telemedicine and the use of digital technologies.
It is absolutely natural for each of us to feel stress, anxiety, fear and loneliness during this time.
A community of youth influencers are working with WHO/Europe to ensure that tailored health advice reaches communities, families and individuals in countries across the WHO European Region.
The guide also takes account of some of the physical challenges of working from home, offering tips on how to integrate movement into daily routines.
Dr Kluge explained that WHO can offer support through the European Centre for Environment and Health located in Bonn, Germany.
97% of the cases are reported from China and our thoughts are with all the families and communities affected by the disease there, and the health workers and authorities working tirelessly to treat and protect their populations.
And for how long?
Speaking to the press, Dr Kluge explained that Serbia is committed and ready to handle any potential cases of COVID-19, adding that he is leaving the country feeling confident.
The team has been invited at the request of the Government to support the Tajik authorities in preparing for and getting ready to manage the emergence and potential spread of COVID-19.
The Federal Government is harnessing this potential with its own online services (www.freiwillige-helfen-jetzt.de) and by promoting existing platforms (www.tagdernachbarn.de).
In the case of insolvencies caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, filing obligations and bans on making payments will be suspended until 30 September 2020.
Through my own work, I want to showcase the important role that our profession plays in patients’ health outcomes.
She stressed our international responsibility for implementing the Paris Agreement and welcomed the new, more ambitious EU climate targets for 2030.
This is due to the rapid increase in the number of cases outside China over the past 2 weeks that has affected a growing number of countries.
As many European countries see a peak in coronavirus cases and others talk about shifting to the next phase, it is important that governments and health systems continue to build their capacity to avoid being overwhelmed by any potential increase in cases.
A recent study has shown that being able to spend time in nature is something that communities experiencing COVID-19 lockdowns have particularly missed.
WHO expresses its appreciation to the Tajik authorities for facilitating the mission, and working in partnership to address the challenge of COVID-19.
Interim estimates of the efficacy of influenza vaccines against laboratory-confirmed influenza infections ranged from 29% to 61% in the primary care setting, and 35% to 60% in hospitalized older adults.
There was also a change in the psychology of the staff.
It is not an “either or” solution.
On a positive note, there are many things that older people can initiate themselves or with the support of a carer, if needed, to protect their mental health at this time.
The vouchers apply only to cancellations resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and the guarantees will apply for a limited period.
WHO has published a series of technical documents for guidance in areas such as surveillance, laboratory investigation, clinical management, infection prevention and control, country readiness and risk communication.
Furthermore, following a measles outbreak in 2017–2018, Serbia responded by increasing vaccination rates to bring the number of cases under control and end the outbreak in August 2019.
Countries that took the path of cuts to health spending struggled to recover from the economic shock.
"We can be extremely happy that we have mastered the last few weeks as we have, but in this I see a duty not to jeopardise all that we have achieved together."
A group of agencies and specialists, brought together by WHO/Europe, was already collaborating on a pilot study to begin screening for cervical cancer in the country.
To date, there have been over 2.2 million confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Region.
Nevertheless, it is crucial to minimize the occurrence of the disease in these settings.
“Authorities in Uzbekistan were trying to find the best test at country level.
Preparedness, readiness and response measures on multiple levels have been launched in all our Member States.
Economic output is set to collapse in the first half of 2020 with most of the contraction taking place in the second quarter.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, refugees and migrants have supported response efforts in various ways, including by:
This is the time for global solidarity and we can overcome the threat only if we act together.
The first cases of 2019-nCoV confirmed in Europe were not unexpected, and they remind us that the global nature of travels exempts no country from infectious disease spread.
It is in moments like this when we have to remind ourselves of the fundamental need to invest in the health workforce, which is a critical resource to keep our countries and people protected.
At the moment it is not mandatory to wear protective masks nationwide.
With community transmission established, it is important to complement these interventions with physical distancing measures.
The resources we manage to raise, both human and financial, are being prioritized in those countries where the needs and risks are higher, and where health systems and preparedness capacities are lower.
Rental payments are covered for six months without any examination of the proportionality of the actual amount and the application procedure has been greatly simplified.
The role of public health services is understood.
For less developed countries in particular often do not themselves have sufficient resources to effectively fight the COVID-19 pandemic.
We have shared all major life events with each other, which has made us a close-knit group, like a family.
That’s why this topic will be at the heart of our discussion today.
Our anxiety and fears should be acknowledged and not be ignored, but better understood and addressed by individuals, communities, and governments.
Being at home can place some children at increased risk of, or increased exposure to, child protection incidents or make them witness to interpersonal violence if their home is not a safe place.
Firstly, he stated that COVID-19 is a test of solidarity, and that it is important for countries and governments to abide by the principles of international cooperation, collaboration and solidarity.
In addition to this, the Federal Government provides up-to-date information on a daily basis on its website and social media channels.
But the eastern states still have unique features, which is why they discussed special economic promotion programmes.
At a press briefing held on 26 March, Dr Kluge, together with Dr Aiysha Malik, Technical Officer, Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse, WHO Headquarters and Dr Dorit Nitzan, Acting Director of Emergencies, WHO/Europe, answered questions on mental health issues in the context of COVID-19 and offered insights on tools, techniques and interventions to address them.
But it should not be this way.
While in Serbia, Dr Kluge and the Serbian Minister of Health, Dr Zlatibor Lončar, signed a biennial collaborative agreement.
Specific quotas of seasonal workers from abroad will be allowed to enter Germany under strict conditions in April and May in order to support domestic agriculture and minimise harvest losses.
“And that is a good example of how prevention works in any part of the world.
Following notification of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause in Wuhan, China on 31 December 2019, a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was identified as the cause by Chinese authorities on 7 January.
The importance of keeping health at the centre of socioeconomic recovery, identifying and evaluating potential risks during the transition phase, easing restrictions safely, and preventing the virus from resurging was stressed by Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, in his address to the member states during the Extraordinary Virtual Meeting of CEI Heads of Government on 15 May 2020.
As of this morning, there were over 75,000 cases reported in the European Region, with four countries - Italy, Spain, France and Germany - accounting for over 77% of all European cases, and with a rising curve.
With a total of 1.6 million cases and almost 150,000 deaths, the European Region accounts for 45% of cases and 60% of global deaths associated with COVID-19.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
COVID-19 is a test of solidarity that we simply cannot afford to fail”.
WHO’s Chinese-language social media channels routinely reach tens of millions of people; our collective United Nations Country Team outreach during the outbreak has reached 1 billion people, and we’ve been able to document – through polling – that behaviours have changed, particularly with an increase in daily practices of handwashing, respiratory hygiene, social distancing and so on.
Thirdly, addressing COVID-19 is an all-of-government, all of society responsibility:On the 11th of March, the WHO Director General announced the first pandemic of coronavirus in history.
Safe hygiene standards require a continuous and adequate supply of safe water, and sanitation systems that will continue to function even under stress or challenging conditions, such as under a changing climate.
Strengthening the healthcare system.
The WHO Regional Office for Europe has a longstanding collaboration with Tajikistan.
We need to be very clear about that.”
So today, I would like to outline how we are assisting countries with both guidance and knowledge exchange, as well as with direct support on the ground.
Loans greater than one billion euros can also be taken out via syndicated financing.
As of today, including those countries we have 16 countries and areas that have reported cases of COVID-19 in my Region.
The risk of importation of the virus may be reduced if temperature screening at entry can lead to early detection of symptomatic passengers and their referral for medical follow-up.
“Combining the experience of Tajikistan’s laboratories with a group of laboratory experts from Germany and the United Kingdom will boost testing capacity in Tajikistan,” added Dr Benedict Gannon, Laboratory Expert of the United Kingdom Public Health Rapid Support Team (UK-PHRST). “We will build on our experiences to help develop the testing work that the Tajikistan Government has already implemented.
We have worked very hard with our countries to develop national plans, so 40 African countries have defined what they would like to do and we are now logging these on the international platform for financing from the international community.
“I started my current role at the Ministry of Health 3 years ago, where I combine my management and leadership skills with the knowledge of nurses’ needs and their training.
“WHO/Europe continues to take an active role, working side by side with countries and regional partners in their efforts to prevent or mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our people.
Many countries also pointed out that the pandemic showed the need for more resilient health systems, including providing greater financial resources to WHO to be able to coordinate global health responses.
The checklist encompasses essential elements such as:
WHO continues to work with countries to train and recruit more nurses.
The new COVID-19 Health System Response Monitor, launched by the WHO Regional Office, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies, together with the European Commission is collating evidence of how health systems are responding to the pandemic.
I urge all countries to take full account of their individual epidemiologic situations, monitor this continuously, and only gradually adjust measures.
It supplements a package of economic assistance measures already agreed."This new 500 billion euro fund will enable us together to ensure that Europe comes out of the crisis united and that it recovers its strength," said Federal Finance Minister Olaf Scholz before the video conference.
In case of symptoms suggestive of respiratory illness either during or after travel, travellers are encouraged to seek medical attention and share their travel history with their health-care provider.
This is what we need to be monitoring as we see the situation evolve in our countries.
Dual track health systems can offer the flexibility and resilience needed to manage repeated waves of coronavirus infections and the increasing demand for other services.
Today, our priority must be to invest in health, invest in social protection and, above all, avoid austerity, which has devastated the lives of so many in Europe.
Statement at ministerial briefings on COVID-19 Honourable ministers and distinguished delegates, good afternoon, good evening from Copenhagen and thank you for joining us.
If on average an interview took 3 minutes with my mediation, without someone who could communicate with patients in their mother tongue, I believe visits would have taken considerably more time.
"Naturally all these mechanisms will remain in place," stressed the Chancellor.
Guarantees total around 820 billion euros.
COVID-19: ensuring refugees and migrants are not left behind
As an immediate measure we will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to have the amount of their tax prepayments for 2019 reduced on the basis of losses incurred in 2020 (loss offsets).
We must remember that this is a new virus from which we are all learning every hour, every day.
A WHO mission comprising public health experts and epidemiologists will be arriving in Dushanbe, Tajikistan in the coming days.
WHO/Europe, in line with global guidance, recommends that all countries increase their level of preparedness and strengthen alert and response systems to identify, manage and care for new cases of COVID-19 and communicate risks.
This should stimulate private consumption and is socially equitable, because VAT is a tax that everybody has to pay, said the Chancellor.
The fact that the health care workers attending the patients were alerted to recognize symptoms and investigate travel history was instrumental to act quickly and effectively.
Dr Aylward also highlighted the need for countries and governments to view the current lockdown measures as a window of opportunity to prepare for a gradual and controlled easing of restrictions.
These plans will help us to match the international resources available with needs and priorities on the ground.
“We must do our best to maintain continuity of essential health-care services while freeing up capacity for the COVID-19 response by training, repurposing and mobilizing the health workforce according to priority services,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
“At the beginning of the epidemic, our initial reaction was fear – fear of getting infected, of how our work may be affected and for the health of the pregnant women requiring our assistance.
Green Line responders are trained medical and health care personnel from the National Institute of Public Health, the Ministry of Defense and other partner institutions who bring together extensive expertise from the fields of public health, epidemiology, hygiene, family medicine and psychology, to name a few.
The company was operationally healthy and profitable prior to the coronavirus pandemic and its future prospects are good.
“I am thankful for my team.
Today, addressing IPC challenges, both in the context of COVID-19, but also with regard to any infectious pathogen that can be transmitted from person to person, involves training professionals in the identification of people at risk, understanding the correct measures to take in a health-care setting when a patient has been identified as being at risk, and treating that patient effectively while ensuring the safety of others.
In the United Kingdom, calls, emails and website visits to Respect, the national domestic violence charity, have increased 97%, 185% and 581% respectively.
At a time of uncertainty about the way a virus originates and behaves, it is even more critical that countries, organizations and the international community act as one.
The Global Shapers collaboration allows WHO/Europe access to a Facebook group where members from all over the Region post rumours they encounter, report on the mood or tone of discussions on their channels, ask questions, and share photos and information as well as project ideas.
To provide this service as required, respiratory physiotherapists are on call 24/7 for emergency treatments.
While most victims of intimate partner violence are women, the Respect Men’s Advice Line has seen a 35% increase in calls regarding intimate partner violence against men.
We must do all we can to ensure that those workers have PPE and other essential supplies to protect themselves and those they care for; to provide appropriate remuneration for the long hours and difficult work they have, and make sure they have the appropriate training to carry out their work.
This will allow investment in health protection measures on the ground.
The panelists’ responses highlighted the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle while in self-quarantine or in isolation.
Across the European Region, where tens of millions of people have been living in lockdown for weeks, and over 100 000 people have died, the speed and devastation of the novel coronavirus has completely upended lives.
The Lancet article – by Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe; Dr Zsuzsanna Jakab, Deputy Director-General of WHO; and Dr Santino Severoni, Special Advisor on Health and Migration and Acting Director of the Division of Health Systems and Public Health at WHO/Europe – is the latest edition in a series of WHO documents to support health authorities in the European Region in including refugees and migrants in COVID-19 related operations through a number of recommendations.
For much of the WHO European Region, we need to be prepared for a long, hot summer.
“At the end of January 2020 Italy reported its first imported cases of COVID-19.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to fight it are having a profound impact on the economy and the labour market.
The Lancet article identifies a set of actions that countries can tailor to address the specific needs of those at risk of NCDs.
Support for workers through an instrument similar to the short-time work allowance in Germany.
One pillar of this work is to provide people with better protection from health emergencies.
One key component of the initiative is the establishment of a Recovery Fund.
Thank you very much for the opportunity to join the call.
WHO/Europe highlights 4 key components for the consideration of easing large-scale restrictive public health measures:
The teleconferences reach just under half the countries in the Region at least once per month.
It is of vital importance therefore that countries work together, learn from each other and coordinate efforts.
At a UN video conference, Chancellor Angela Merkel has called on the international community to demonstrate solidarity in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic.
As we speak, the global number of cases across the world has surpassed the 400,000 mark.
Recovery fund for Europe
Medical and treatment services need to be alert and ready to respond to any person in need.
“I am thankful for the nurses’ courage and the population’s trust and confidence in us.”
For academics in the qualification phase leading up to a doctoral degree and in the immediate period thereafter, the maximum length of a limited-term contract will be extended, by the length of time for which the pandemic results in restrictions being imposed on the operating of universities and academic facilities.
All that was required was for a cartridge to be inserted into an already-available machine to test for COVID-19.
We are safeguarding the important work of associations, initiatives and other organisations promoting social participation and political education with pragmatic solutions in the area of funding law.
Member states will provide the Commission with a one-off authorisation to raise a specific sum on the market on behalf of the EU and using the EU budget as collateral.
As these temporary containment measures are gradually lifted, the next phase of public health response is focused on mitigating the risk of COVID-19 across the general population over the long term.
The Prime Minister agreed that investing in health provides direct economic gains and helps to ensure a healthy, economically active and sustainable workforce.
We monitor those measures on an ongoing basis and hold regular consultations with counterparts in health ministries to gather and share helpful information.
Many patients will need hospital treatment.
Italy has an app to ask for help without a phone call.
We must also take account of the fact that the epidemic is not spreading evenly throughout Germany, but that the situation can be different from one region to another.
There are three parts to the programme:
This also means that no country can afford postponing the establishment of all necessary measures to protect their people.
The WHO COVID-19 mission comprising public health experts and epidemiologists landed in Dushanbe on Friday,1 May, at the request of the Government of Tajikistan.
So I find this an opportunity to emphasize those strong links between Europe and Africa that go back many years, and I am sure will continue in the future, in this discussion of the global pandemic, having been invited by Dr Kluge.
There are no approved treatments for COVID-19 and pharmacies must therefore play their part in helping to contain the spread of false claims and misinformation circulating in their communities, according to WHO/Europe.
This is down from 3,800 new cases in a single day at the peak of the epidemic last month.
Tapping into WHO expertise allows Uzbekistan to increase COVID-19 testing
Resilience needed as COVID-19 measures shift, WHO tells countries
The Chancellor pointed to the central role played by the UN, particularly in efforts to overcome the pandemic.
The first foundation stone has now been laid.
Members of the public can also defer payments for electricity and gas, and also for telephone contracts, as well as payments stemming from consumer loan agreements.
Dr Antonietta Filia, public health physician and researcher working at the Infectious Diseases Department of the Italian National Institute of Health and an expert member of the European Technical Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization explained that the regions in Italy have tailored their immunization services based on the local COVID-19 epidemiology and the mitigation measures in place.
They are the heroes of this response.
The country shares a border with Iran, where many cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed.
WHO/Europe recently held a meeting of the Standing Committee for the Regional Committee (SCRC), including representatives of all Member States of the European Region, which provided an update on COVID-19 and the work undertaken by WHO/Europe.
It is also timely to remind ourselves of the need to protect human rights and fight against stigmatization and discrimination.
Income assessments will be suspended for the next six months if a declaration is made that the person does not have substantial assets (liquid assets of over 60,000 euros and an additional 30,000 euros per member of the household).
WHO Regional Director for Europe, Dr Hans Kluge,
In closing, let me repeat my three points:
We are a generation that needs to be convinced, so it’s more like a chat with a person you know.”
At this point let me pause to applaud and thank you for the contributions and pledges received from Member States in the European Region (and the European Union) to the global COVID-19 appeals:
The federal and state governments have agreed to lift further restrictions: church services are to be permitted, and playgrounds are to reopen.
What is now needed is to guarantee commuters the freedom to travel between their homes and their workplaces, while ensuring maximum health protection.
Alongside numerous heads of state and government, the heads of international organisations (including the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the OECD) attended the video conference.
Participants are briefed by experts before the cameras roll, and afterwards, the recordings are shared by WHO Turkey on their social media accounts.
WHO/Europe continues to encourage individuals to take care of their own health and protect others by:
In addition, the G20 partners and other creditor nations have agreed to grant a debt moratorium to the 77 poorest countries.
And I send my heartfelt gratitude to those on the frontline, in health and care services, who are keeping services operating, working relentlessly to save lives.
“COVID-19 is something all health-care professionals are confronting right now,” said Mitchell J Schwaber, Director of the National Center for Infection Control, Ministry of Health, Israel. “It’s very important to share ideas, thoughts and concerns and learn from the wisdom of other colleagues.”
There is no one-size-fits-all approach across the European Region.
Solidarity is key here, between the health authorities and COVID-19 response leads in the respective countries.
Yet this raises broader concerns.
The steps involve implementing and adapting contingency plans in place for influenza and other viral respiratory diseases.
Such actions may help to delay the pandemic, giving health-care systems time to prepare and assimilate the impact.
Significantly reduced physical activity, including travel to work and other places, exercise and sports for recreational purposes, may lead to an increase in obesity and risk of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
This is directly impacting the ability of health systems to prepare and respond.
“At times, it gets hard to breathe and even if I open the window, I cannot feel fresh air.
While we await the development of potential vaccines, it is important that we work in parallel to develop therapeutic solutions.
Measures by the Federal Government to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and address its impacts
Maintaining continuity of service delivery during a pandemic in core service areas, including essential prevention of communicable diseases, particularly with vaccines, requires a robust health system.
As far as the African Region is concerned, about six weeks ago, two months ago, we were observing that there were not many cases of coronavirus in the Region.
“We don’t teach by hammering home a formula.
In addition, WHO and partners are developing an external quality assurance programme for national 2019-nCoV laboratories.
The associations have pledged to ensure that the supply chains between industry, trade and end consumers continue to function.
Likewise, film and television and star, Mert Fırat, working with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), attracted almost 17 000 people to WHO Turkey’s Twitter account, where he cross-checked information about COVID-19 with the experts. “As we all know, there are a lot of myths being circulated about COVID-19,” Fırat warned.
With occasional assistance from colleagues, they have spoken to almost 10 000 health workers, including clinicians in Italy at the height of the outbreak.
Together, they have virtually travelled to more than 20 countries in the WHO European Region.
“The oxygen generator, which we received from WHO and started using in January, is helping significantly.
It is the latest of over 60 missions we have conducted across the European Region during this pandemic, providing guidance on a range of technical areas including laboratory testing, disease surveillance, operational planning, hospital preparedness, and of course to help countries respond.
“In the Lombardy region, the country’s epicentre of the COVID-19 pandemic, regional authorities advised temporary suspension of routine vaccinations on 24 February.
Nurses and doctors fight this virus together, they fall ill together and they heal patients together.
I oversee the regulation of the nursing profession, including licensing, certification of training institutions and study programmes, and curricula to expand nurses’ responsibilities and areas of expertise.”
We must change the environment in which they deliver care, offering suitable levels of resources and staffing.
People with pre-existing chronic diseases often associated with lower socioeconomic status are more likely to suffer serious complications or die from COVID-19.
This, of course, has implications for language, leadership and day-to-day social interaction that can make or break the success and impact of a government policy or measure.
Overall, the COVID-19 response in Kyrgyzstan was found to be well organized and orchestrated largely in line with WHO guidelines.
That is also down to the people, who through their careful behaviour and acceptance of the adopted measures have paved the way for halting the spread of the pandemic.
Immunization is a right and a responsibility.
The purpose of the briefing was to provide ambassadors from across the Region with an understanding of the actions needed to prevent and control the outbreak, as well as an opportunity to ask questions on a range of topics.
The following regulations apply retrospectively as of 1 March 2020, to facilitate access to short-time work allowance:
New WHO Regional Office for Europe guidance will be released at the beginning of next week.
At this stage, a skilled public health workforce supported by effective digital technology and capable of fulfilling a comprehensive, real-time, effective surveillance function, is a clear prerequisite to safe shifting of physical distancing restrictions.
It is our duty to leave no-one behind.
For more information, contact:
Leaving no one behind is a priority for WHO in everything we do.
More recently, WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control sent a joint mission to Italy following confirmation of a cluster of cases.
The experts deployed by WHO/Europe to Tajikistan will work together with the WHO Country Office to support the Tajik government and international partners to establish a Public Health Emergency Operations Centre, enhance the containment strategy, and strengthen risk communication and community engagement.
Membership of the Emergency Committee was expanded to reflect the nature of the pandemic and the need to include additional areas of expertise.
To this end, the Federal Government is cooperating intensively with its partners within the context of the G7 and G20.
Within the survey, countries indicated areas in which they would value further support from the WHO.
I want to convey three messages to you, your Excellencies, today:
The role of public health services is understood.
“The collaboration and mutual respect between all health-care professionals today is unprecedented.
They guided health authorities to repurpose the machines instead of trying to source new ones.
Ultimately there is only one solution: act with kindness, act with love, but with physical distancing.
The Federal Government is pursuing three objectives with its actions:
“We have conducted weekly surveys in Germany since 3 March.
Some examples of essential health-care services include routine vaccination; reproductive health services, including care during pregnancy and childbirth; care of infants and older adults; management of mental health conditions, noncommunicable diseases and infectious diseases such as HIV, malaria and tuberculosis; critical inpatient therapies; management of emergency health conditions; palliation; and auxiliary services such as basic diagnostic imaging, laboratory services and blood bank services, among others.
By 22 April 2020, some 108 million protective masks and 50 million gloves had been purchased, which are being distributed predominantly to hospitals and doctors.
Azerbaijan steps up COVID-19 preparedness and readiness measures, welcoming WHO mission
We are present on the ground in Italy and are currently deploying missions to 12 countries, with 46 missions held already since February 2020.
A task force has been set up at the Federal Ministry for Economic and Energy to support these efforts.
The fact that we are seeing signs of it (solidarity), and as WHO see it as our duty to acknowledge it and promote it where it is happening.
The following measures will remain in place: a minimum distance requirement of 1.5 metres and the use of masks, especially on public transport and in shops.
Timely information needs to reach communities to engage and inform them about the active role they play.
With the #LogistikHilft initiative, the Federal Government is working with companies in the transport and logistics sector to ensure fair and appropriate working conditions for those who through their work are guaranteeing access to supplies for people in Germany.
Thank you for joining us.
How to live with COVID-19 was the main topic on the agenda at a virtual meeting of 34 Member States of the WHO European Region.
A: China amassed significant experience in COVID-19.
Most importantly, this is an epidemic that can be pushed back.
To support people in staying physically active while at home, WHO/Europe has developed specific guidance for periods of quarantine, including tips and examples of home-based exercises.
As these challenges grow, governments and policy-makers are calling for clear and comparable health systems evidence to inform their policies and to strengthen their capacity to respond to this unprecedented crisis.
The worldwide travel warning is to be lifted in the European Union as of 15 June. It will be replaced by country-specific travel information.
Bus and railway companies are being asked to provide passengers with comprehensive information.
Germany has provided an additional 140 million euros for the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) vaccine initiative to promote the development of vaccines.
At every step, the public should be informed and guided on how to protect themselves and others, support their communities and maintain a sense of normality in extraordinary circumstances.
The country will also be receiving personal protective equipment for immediate needs to protect frontline health care workers caring for patients with suspected and confirmed COVID-19, and laboratory staff who are testing suspected cases.The Government of Azerbaijan is contributing to global efforts to address COVID-19, coordinating with neighboring countries, and has pledged US$ 5 million to WHO’s strategic preparedness and response plan.
The purpose of these meetings was to discuss specific health issues and to agree on how WHO/Europe can do more to support Serbia in achieving its health aims by working with the highest levels of government.
Hospitals play a critical role within the health system in providing essential medical care to the community, particularly in a crisis.
To address the crisis, the German government and the federal states have launched extensive packages of financial measures.
It is now up to the European Commission to elaborate a proposal on this basis, which can then be approved by all member states.
The announcement came after the third meeting of the Emergency Committee on COVID-19 concluded.
You can rest assured that we are, and will continue to do everything we possibly can to support you and work with you in order to respond to this outbreak.
We appreciate the efforts of the Tajik authorities and thank the United Nations and other partners for their assistance.”
The purpose of the evaluation is to improve national and international pandemic response and preparedness.
Refugees and migrants, particularly those who are displaced and/or living in camps and camp-like settings, are faced with specific challenges and vulnerabilities that must be taken into consideration when preparing for or responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
We kept each other motivated and encouraged one another to remain in high spirits.
This must be a whole-of-government and whole-of- society response.
As we often have electricity outages in Volnovakha, I am thankful that the oxygen generator we now have is self-reliant and oxygen is readily available.
Here we can draw on the remarkable powers of strength and cooperation that we also fortunately possess as humans.
Appropriate CO2 pricing needed
The key elements are a cut in value added tax, and support for families, the private sector and local authorities.
Obligations to provide evidence will be simplified for parents who are currently receiving the partnership bonus.
In North Macedonia, midwives and nurses were honoured with ear-deafening applause as over 500 health-care professionals joined in for a 5 May “clap” initiative at the 6 hospitals that treat COVID-19 patients in the country.
This is what all our people expect.
The public, medical professionals and public health authorities need to be prepared for heatwaves and to prevent and tackle the possible health consequences of heat exposure.
Chancellor Angela Merkel stressed that the pledging conference is "a sign of hope for many countries".
Many aspects of our work have become more challenging during the COVID-19 outbreak.
Furthermore, the risk of infection is particularly high in care homes.
"And they are working well, all the staff," underscored Angela Merkel.
I took the opportunity to stress that all countries should have their Country Preparedness and Response Plans in place.
The target to date had been 40 per cent.
Statement – We cannot allow the impact of COVID-19 to be amplified by neglecting other vital health protection measures
The authorities also reiterated the importance of putting in place a mechanism to register the children who had missed their routine doses and to prioritize these children as soon as services were available again,” she explained.
Credit lines for states under the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).
2. Establishment of an ambitious economic recovery fund at EU level to foster solidarity and growth
This could be due to a number of reasons, such as difficulties travelling across a city or country to access care or fear of infection.
Other vital health services have been “crowded out”.
Introduction
Ageing populations, urbanization and increased consumer concern about the quality and safety of the food supply are changing food habits and demand.
One of the key topics discussed was the importance of tackling air pollution.
“China shows COVID-19 responses must be tailored to the local context”
In future it will be possible for people in hospitals, care homes, pension homes and facilities for people with disabilities to receive regular visits from one designated contact person, provided there are no active COVID-19 cases in the facility.
By joining forces, both organizations will be able to better utilize resources and reinforce public health solutions on the ground.
Looking ahead, each of us has a vital role to play – shaping the recovery to a new normal, placing health and equity at the heart of all policies.
Every country must consider physical distancing.
I want to particularly thank the European Union and all governments that have already provided their financial contributions to this global effort.
Although surveillance for influenza often stops at the end of May and resumes in October, this year WHO is encouraging all countries to continue surveillance throughout the summer months to monitor COVID-19 virus activity.
Distancing remains important!
The first of my three messages to you today is that – we can support your governments planning transition, and to learn from different health system responses across the Region.
There are three priorities for country readiness: 1) protecting health workers; 2) engaging communities to protect people who are most at risk; and 3) protecting countries that are the most vulnerable, by doing our utmost to contain outbreaks in countries with the capacity to do so.
We are all facing a great test, but I am confident that together, we will overcome and emerge stronger.
To check its exponential spread and buy our health systems precious time, countries introduced never-before seen restrictions on social interaction and individual movement.
Israeli government representatives shared examples of methods used to cope with the pandemic, informed by the country’s extensive experience in managing crises. “In Israel the authorities are working day in and day out to mitigate the impact of the pandemic.
“It was surprising to see how similarly people react in different epidemics and settings.
They can mitigate climate change impacts such as extreme temperatures or flooding; reduce pollution in air, soil or water; and lower the risks of disasters caused by the combination of extreme weather events and land erosion, as in the case of flooding and landslides.
For example, engagement with the United Kingdom’s National Stalking Advocacy Service, Report Harmful Content Hotline and Revenge Porn Helpline has doubled.
WHO/Europe COVID-19 mission on route to Tajikistan at Government’s request
The Bundeswehr is playing an active role in many areas within the framework of administrative assistance.
With the voluntary voucher solution, the German government is complying with the provisions of the EU’s Package Travel Directive and recommendations of the European Commission.
We want to make sure people get the best possible care from our nurses.
During this challenging period, staff well-being is a key priority so they can continue their vital work treating patients.
That is why we can only beat it if we take global action," stressed Chancellor Angela Merkel today at an international pledging event.
For others, it was a call to action.
I wish you every success.
The Federal Government is working to keep the economy running as far as possible despite the current restrictions.
A higher additional pension income has been made available in order to ensure that the current high demand for personnel in the healthcare sector as well as essential care sectors is met.
“From now on, quality, resourced, strong and sustainable, long-term care systems that prioritize people’s needs and dignity must be our gold standard.
It is vital that countries clearly communicate this to the public to build trust and ensure that people observe restrictions specific to their situation.
However, the immunization services were partially reopened on 11 March, and full services resumed from 14 April.
So many lives have been lost.
It was really encouraging to see that prisoners of different cultural and ethnic backgrounds were consistently complying with the measures”, said Dr Giuliani.
cushioning the impact on citizens, employees and companies, and overcoming the pandemic together with European and international partners.
Marina Davletbaeva was one of the health workers who appreciated their advice on how best to support patients with severe coronavirus symptoms. “When the Polish medical workers came to our hospital we worked practically around the clock.
After graduating from college, I continued my studies at the university and eventually completed a master’s degree in nursing.
But small, positive signals in some countries are tempered by sustained or increased levels of incidence in other countries including the UK, Turkey, Ukraine, Belarus, and the Russian Federation.
The aim here is to help children in need and young people in particular.
Globally, WHO is making 250 000 tests available to 159 laboratories.
WHO/Europe today convened an online briefing to exchange guidance, information and experiences from across the European, Western Pacific and African regions with ambassadors and diplomats based in Denmark, Copenhagen.
Even among very old people who are frail and live with multiple chronic conditions – many have a good chance of recovery if they are well-cared for.
For example, a month and a half ago we only had two countries and two laboratories that could confirm diagnosis of this virus.
I count on your support to convey these messages to your governments.
“It is a very different thing to listen to someone talking than to have a go at doing something yourself,” he observed. “It’s not enough to hear about how to set up a ventilator – they need to be able to stand at a patient’s bedside and set one up.”
Experiences from other countries show that domestic violence has increased in the course of the COVID-19 pandemic.
We have received masks, protective gowns and extensive instructions from the Ministry of Health.
WHO/Europe has released new technical guidance on how to prevent and manage COVID-19 infections in long-term care services.
Use this opportunity to protect them and others from diseases that we can prevent.
The WHO regional directors of Europe, the Western Pacific and Africa were united in their calls for solidarity to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic effectively.
Try to stay positive.
It has made considerable changes to its working methods in recent weeks to this end. As a rule, two weekly special meetings of the Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 are supplementing the regular cabinet meetings.
This profession requires hard work, deep commitment to helping others and a strong sense of respect for both colleagues and patients.
Additionally, it is no single country’s fault and we must not assign blame.
Now it is important not to become careless, not to think we are safe - "because we could easily destroy everything we have achieved".
Due to the nature of COVID-19, it is difficult to understand the impact of any easing of restrictions until 10–14 days have passed.
I worked side by side with Turkish colleagues towards the common goal of identifying COVID-19 patients, interviewing them in a quick and efficient manner, performing tests, recording data in health information systems, and informing them that they may have been infected.
Admission of volunteers and supporting staff into the facilities was restricted.
Some of the elements in the checklist include:
A task force is to be set up, which will be dedicated solely to national or Europe-wide production.
My third message is this – We each have a role to play in keeping the virus at bay.
The Federal Government has launched the Economic Stabilisation Fund in order to prevent insolvencies.
Employees whose working hours have been reduced by at least 50 percent are to receive 70 percent of their flat-rate net pay (77 percent for households with children) from the fourth month of drawing the benefit and 80 percent from the seventh month (87 percent for households with children).
The step-by-step list helps hospitals review systems, resources and protocols, and outlines specific actions to strengthen their responsiveness to COVID-19.
As part of this effort, 400 participants worked together in a virtual space over the course of two weeks.
Moreover, the right of creditors to apply for the opening of insolvency proceedings will be suspended for a three month transition period.
Kanti Kumar Bit, Web Manager, Country Support and Communications, WHO/Europe, +45 4533 6623, bitk@who.int
“We implemented several steps to this end: COVID-19 infected mothers have their newborn’s crib at a 1-meter distance and they must practice respiratory hygiene, including wearing a mask when breastfeeding, and hand hygiene.
Only with a strong healthcare system can healthcare be maintained in the long term and an excessive burden be avoided.
WHO recommends 150 minutes of moderate-intensity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity physical activity per week for adults, or a combination of both.
The Federal Government will do what it can to ensure that we succeed in this endeavour.
The devices will remain the property of the schools, which will be able to use them later for regular classroom teaching.
The epidemic can be expected to spread further in Germany as in other countries, he declared.
Over 8,600 people have unfortunately lost their lives to COVID-19 so far.
“How we put on our protective equipment at the beginning of each shift, determines our fate,” says 24-year-old nurse, Laura Lupi, who works at a COVID-19 hospital in Teramo, in the Abruzzo region of Italy.
“Community-wide public health measures that include physical distancing can help prevent and slow down the spread of the virus,” said Dr Patrick O’Connor, leader of the expert team to Belarus, speaking to journalists at the end of their 3-day mission. “Health-care facilities can use the time to equip themselves with appropriate capacity in terms of health-care workers, beds, isolation wards, intensive care units and protective equipment to deal with the increase in the number of cases.”
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many established social support structures are temporarily unavailable or have had to redefine their role.
As part of Sustainable Development Goals 14 and 15, it is the responsibility of all sectors to protect nature and biodiversity, and to maintain and enhance a variety of their direct and indirect benefits to health and well-being.
The course of history has changed in twelve weeks, and we still do not know where this will end.
The “Pregnant Women in Need” helpline also remains continuously in operation so that pregnant women in conflict situations can talk to someone without delay.
An economy of well-being means:
For example, health systems are comparatively weak, and many households do not have running water or the space for placing individuals in isolation.
First of all, I want to extend my most sincere empathy to all those communities and families affected by the COVID-19 outbreak – those in your countries and further afield.
Deaths have risen by 18% over the same period.
General hygiene rules
The WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, declared the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) on 30 January 2020.
The value of health workers is appreciated like never before.
The 11th Petersberg Climate Dialogue was held on 27 and 28 April, in the form of a video conference.
The Standing Committee therefore:
“More and more countries are now experiencing clusters of cases or community transmission.
In his address, he thanked health-care workers for their response to the pandemic and explained that despite the unexpected circumstances, he remains determined to deliver on the EPW.
Sometimes residents face the threat of abuse and neglect.
Being able to communicate without language barriers and in a non-judgemental way is of the essence during contact tracing, especially as identifying possibly infected individuals is a time-sensitive matter – the sooner people are identified, the fewer people are at risk.”
The United Kingdom Government has established an advisory group, the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Behavioural Science and the UK’s Department of Health has conducted weekly surveys looking at attitudes and awareness, with input from behavioural and psychological scientists.
These are the people it is our responsibility to protect.
Countries conduct surveillance to characterize the circulating influenza viruses, to determine the timing of the influenza season and the potential severity of disease, to evaluate interventions (in particular vaccination) and to provide data to WHO for regional and global updates.
At times of international outbreaks, GOARN pools human and technical resources at the request of affected WHO Member States, making sure that the right technical support and skills are on the ground rapidly, where and when they are needed for identification, confirmation and effective crisis response.
Today, there are countries at all stages of the epidemic in the Western Pacific.
Dr Filia added, “As highlighted in the new WHO/Europe guidelines, it is crucial to continue providing life-saving vaccines, as feasible, in order to prevent any outbreaks of preventable diseases, such as measles.
As part of the project, I received theoretical and practical training from WHO and the Turkish Ministry of Health, to work alongside Turkish doctors at the migrant health centres, which are part of the public health system,” explains Ahmed Ahmed, a refugee nurse from the Syrian Arab Republic.
The aim is to “protect the population as well as possible and to stem the epidemic as far as possible,” said Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn.
It is a major achievement that the European Union has agreed far faster on an initial 540 billion euro assistance package than twelve years ago in the face of the last financial crisis, stressed Federal Finance Minister Olaf Scholz.
They should also be ready to share full data with WHO.
Unity is indispensable now, but it also shows the way for the future.
The country also received personal protective equipment for frontline health-care workers, as well as for laboratory staff testing swabs from patients with suspected COVID-19.
The German government intends to take steps at national level as well as taking action agreed within the European Union, announced Chancellor Angela Merkel following a meeting of what has become known as the Corona Cabinet.
Isolated and fearing a person who is supposed to love and care for them, they walk on eggshells, afraid of whatever innocuous trigger might lead to the next onslaught.
This means that more people in Germany can be tested in the event of a suspected infection.
IMF measures must also be considered in order to retain liquidity in the global economy during the current crisis, said the Chancellor.
WHO/Europe encourages health workers to ask “why?”
Alcohol is known to be harmful to health in general, and is well understood to increase the risk of injury and violence, including intimate partner violence, and can cause alcohol poisoning.
With this aid, the German government aims to help combat the pandemic on a lasting basis, and prevent new waves of infections.
Due to the global nature of travel, it is expected that further international exportation of 2019-nCoV cases may appear in any country and the possibility of cases arriving in the European Region cannot be excluded.
“Shapers” also publish social media posts on their networks with information addressing the rumours they find through the Facebook group.
Enormous efforts and great solidarity
The guidance provides useful information to staff and health care providers working in prisons, and to prison authorities.
There is a substantial and ever-increasing unmet need for rehabilitation worldwide which is particularly profound in low- and middle-income countries.
So in the last two weeks we have had an exponential geographical spread of this virus in the African Region.
Today, WHO/Europe has published interim guidance on how to deal with the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in prisons and other places of detention, entitled “Preparedness, prevention and control of COVID-19 in prisons and other places of detention”.
That could be in Germany, or elsewhere in Europe, explained Chancellor Angela Merkel.
While responding to COVID-19 and developing strategies to transition to a “new normal”, Member States should consider the risk of exacerbating pre-existing health inequalities and implement measures that are culturally sensitive to effectively reach refugee and migrant communities.
As well as weathering the corona pandemic, the German government continues to pursue its longer-term objectives.
The team has recommended maintaining a strong focus on containment measures across the country, and prioritizing the identification and testing of suspect cases.
This is an important lesson for everyone – one size does not fit all.
As China emerges from the containment phase of the outbreak after 2 months and moves into the mitigation stage, its experience is helping countries currently at the start of the COVID-19 cycle to plan their responses better.
Ensuring that everyone is fully vaccinated not only saves lives but also prevents outbreaks of diseases, including measles, which could burden economies and health-care systems already strained by COVID-19.
These measures are inhibiting the flow of desperately needed supplies and equipment, including personal protective equipment for our frontline health workforce.
The WHO guidance on breastfeeding during COVID-19 has been very useful for us.
ECOFIN (the Economic and Financial Affairs Council) has met to discuss progress on steps taken by the EU to address the COVID-19 pandemic.
The field emergency team has provided targeted capacity-building for relevant health-care professionals of the regions in Italy and supported implementation of WHO guidance on how health systems can respond to the pandemic.
With this awareness comes the need to better understand health systems’ strengths and vulnerabilities and how to respond resiliently to the outbreak, particularly in the face of the influenza season, economic impacts and potential resurgence of COVID-19 cases.
Specialists from the National Institute of Public Health instruct all responders about symptoms, case definitions, recommended preventive measures, essential sources of information and phone communication skills.
The experience of Italian health professionals contributed to the creation of the WHO guidance on Preparedness, prevention and control of COVID-19 in prisons and other places of detention.
Each suspected or confirmed case tests the country’s response system, providing the opportunity (through ‘after action reviews’) to identify where further improvements can be made.
“I have been the Chief Nurse of Chernivtsi Province since February 2020 and I coordinate the work of almost 7000 nurses,” says Nadiya Labanda.
It is an individual as well as a collective responsibility.
The Federal Government is working intensively with logistics companies, industry and trade to ensure that people continue to have access to basic supplies such as food and other essential everyday items.
Health-care providers need to be aware of what their ministry guidelines are and who to turn to when questions arise.
In 2019, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine created the Centre for Nursing Development, responsible for improving the rights of nurses and midwives in the country’s health-care system.
“I do 7- or 10-hour shifts, during which I cannot eat or drink – we cannot take off our protective equipment once we have put it on.
Health professionals delivering immunization programmes across the Region are working hard to ensure that as many children as possible have access to vaccine services, while preventing COVID-19 infection.
Furthermore, countries should ensure that international experts are given access to affected countries and regions to provide support despite restrictive travel measures.
The following regulations are planned:
To address this, NCD staff, stakeholders and patients should be involved in planning COVID-19 response strategies.”
Previous outbreaks have demonstrated that when health systems are overwhelmed, disability and preventable mortality can increase dramatically.
With good reason: the world is facing the greatest public health challenge of modern times.
Free travel for commuters and maximum health protection
With the ordinance, the German government makes use of the authorisation laid out in the "Act to enhance the regulations governing short-time work allowance for a limited period as a result of the crisis" (Gesetz zur befristeten krisenbedingten Verbesserung der Regelungen für das Kurzarbeitergeld) in order to make it easier to obtain short-time work allowance.
"We want to hit the ground running as we come out of this crisis," said Federal Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, commenting on the package that the government will now be implementing.
Given how this new approach has been accepted by patients and health workers, the service in Portugal hopes that new channels for communicating with patients and the public can be sustained in the long term as they continue adapting care for people living with diabetes.
On 11 March, WHO delivered more than 7000 protection kits to the Chernivtsi Province Hospital, including medical masks and particulate respirators, gloves, goggles and protective clothing.
We are all in this together.
In the WHO European Region, the 2019–2020 influenza season started in late November 2019 and peaked in the first week of February.
As countries consider how they will shield and minimize the spread of the disease among people over 65 years of age, it is important to understand the needs of this group and what makes this population susceptible to severe COVID-19 disease.
And some older people may already be socially isolated and experiencing loneliness which can worsen mental health.
This includes establishing how to promptly detect sick people, test samples from suspect cases, ensure appropriate infection control and case management to minimize the risk of the virus spreading, and maintain communication with the public.
Thinking that “this does not concern me” is not an option.
Best practices for infection prevention and control, with a spotlight on COVID-19: countries share experiences
This rebound, however, would leave the European economy, at the end of this forecast horizon, about 3% lower than the output level implied by the autumn forecast.”
Despite the current serious situation, Germany has every reason to look to the future with confidence.
For example, learning and practicing simple relaxation techniques (like breathing exercises, muscle relaxation, mindfulness meditation) can all be very helpful in alleviating bodily and mental distress.
The Federal Government is procuring such equipment at the federal level in order to ensure that the high demand for protective equipment can be met in a strained global market.
Where do we go from here?
"Rather too much protection than too little"
However, refugees and migrants may live under conditions that make them more vulnerable, and face the risk of being neglected and marginalized during the current pandemic.
It contains elements of the Franco-German proposal.
WHO/Europe continues to communicate regularly with countries and partners in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is to enhance resilience, convergence and the competitiveness of the European economy, increase investment especially in digital and environmental transformation, and strengthen research and innovation.
They visited health-care facilities, public health centres, laboratories and emergency centres at the national, regional and city levels to understand the transmission patterns of the virus, and recommend actions to control the outbreak.
More than 310 health-care workers completed online training courses in the clinical management of patients with COVID-19.
Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, spoke for all when he called on countries to:
Statement – COVID-19 epidemic can be pushed back Dear Excellencies, Dear fellow Regional Directors, Dear Colleagues,
To support water and sanitation practitioners and providers, as well as health-care professionals, WHO has recently published a technical brief, “Water, sanitation, hygiene and waste management for COVID-19”.
Therefore, for a transitional period, landlords cannot terminate residential or commercial premises owing to rental arrears.
"In most cases, a clear epidemiological link can be established," said Professor Dr Wieler, President of the Robert Koch Institute.
Over the past two months, WHO/Europe has organized approximately 60 COVID-19-related missions to countries in the Region, delivering technical guidance on a range of issues, including laboratory support, disease surveillance, operational planning, and hospital preparedness.
A balanced outcome
They last for 2 hours and offer simultaneous translations.
In addition to national efforts, the EU is thus to be enabled provide support for the worst hit sectors and regions.
Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Ukraine have seen increases in new cases over the past week.
This, of course, includes those who are particularly susceptible—the elderly and people who have underlying conditions.
Three fifths (61%) of countries also reported a decrease in outpatient volume due to patients not coming for their appointments.
We will get through these difficult times, together.
I appreciate that this is a time of pressure and concern, but I personally wanted to check in with you, and hear how we can support you best.
We must all take action to protect these courageous individuals as best we can.
This protects consumers from being cut off from essential services.
But recovery from one shock can also inform preparedness for another, and the experiences of different countries and systems hold important lessons for decision-makers.
In particular, alcohol compromises the body’s immune system and increases the risk of adverse health outcomes.
When the vulnerability and frailty of our way of living are appreciated, health is at the top of the agenda.
EMTs are an important part of the global health workforce.
Better coordination among all institutions, reviewing specific cases of violence and looking at the best ways to deal with them are all part of the programme’s remit.
The most common measures that are eased first are the opening of non-essential businesses and relaxation of domestic movement restrictions.
Reaching the most vulnerable children who have missed routine immunizations in the past should be prioritized.”
That feeling, and the enforced isolation, leads to an increased need for human contact.
The Federal Employment Agency will reimburse employers their social security contributions in full.
They may need to start home delivery services for prescription and non-prescription medicines and make changes to the store environment to reduce the risk of virus transmission.
A second wave is not inevitable – yet, as more and more countries relax restrictions there is a clear threat that Covid-19 infections may surge.
An initial investigation by Italian authorities has found several clusters of cases in different regions of northern Italy, with evidence of local transmission of COVID-19.
Chernivtsi Province in western Ukraine was the first to detect novel coronavirus infections in the country and now has the highest number of confirmed COVID-19 cases after the capital Kyiv.
A: China has gone from being the epicentre of the COVID-19 pandemic to now representing less than a quarter of global cases, and we now have as much to learn from the rest of the global community as to offer from our experience in China.
For example, children may have missed routine vaccinations, which will need to be quickly rectified to avoid any outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases.
The Director-General had convened the committee on 30 April 2020 under the International Health Regulations (IHR).
As you face greater risks, you need the equipment and training to protect yourselves so that you can continue saving others.
This was the key message from Dr Hans Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, during his short visit to Serbia on 24–25 February, which underlined that working with countries is at the centre of his vision for health.
Officials in Norway, for instance, are even more concerned for children, suspecting that as schools are closed, regular reporting mechanisms and support networks have been disrupted.
"We have managed this because all of us – the people, the private sector and the state – have pulled together in this difficult time, and in the face of far-reaching restrictions," said Angela Merkel.
“In my work I am particularly dedicated to the Bukovyna Provincial Children's Rehabilitation Centre, where we work with children with neurological conditions, predominantly cerebral palsy, from all over Ukraine.
Medical practices, hospitals and nursing and care facilities will also be kept supplied with updated information materials.
It is vital that we treat patients with dignity and compassion, put measures in place to prevent onward transmission, and protect health workers,” commented Dr Hans Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
The basis will thus be an exemption clause, anchored in the Own Resources Decision and linked to a mandatory repayment plan.
Immunization is crucial to achieving universal health care and the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as being a vital component of our society that assures health security across the Region.
He was speaking on Thursday evening, after the EU finance ministers reached agreement on a protection programme worth 500 billion euros.
The WHO mission to support COVID-19 preparedness and response in Azerbaijan recommended prioritizing early identification of cases to prevent the spread of illness and optimization of care to all patients.
However, after the first cases were confirmed in prisons, this perception began to change.
But we also know that the situation in each country – sometimes even within countries – is different.
The COVID-19 pandemic has prevented a large number of German travellers from returning to Germany via their planned route.
Many infections occur when health workers don’t know how to correctly put on their personal protective equipment.
Statement – Vaccination must be maintained during COVID-19 pandemic to be effective
As during Liberia’s Ebola outbreak, also in my home country the lockdown and fear disoriented people, we encountered similar difficulties in explaining protective measures to staff”, Dr Giuliani said.
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19): European Region focusing on readiness
During a video conference, Chancellor Angela Merkel has found out first-hand about the work of the staff of the Harz District Health Office in the state of Saxony-Anhalt.
How to stay physically active during COVID-19 self-quarantine
Having an oxygen generator now, we are more confident that we will be able to assist our patients.
Countries across the European Region continue to prepare for and respond to cases of COVID-19.
To this end, the Fund has a guarantee framework of 400 billion euros at its disposal for the refinancing of companies on the capital market and a recapitalisation framework of 100 billion euros to safeguard companies’ solvency.
Heat can trigger exhaustion and heat stroke, and can aggravate existing conditions – such as cardiovascular, respiratory, kidney or mental diseases.
He also drew attention to WHO response plans and to the just-launched COVID-19 Solidary Response Fund, a joint initiative of WHO, the United Nations Foundation and partners to support the most vulnerable and in-need countries.
During a briefing via video conference for the diplomatic corps based in Denmark and Geneva, WHO Regional Director for Europe, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, explained that the COVID-19 pandemic is accelerating and called for solidarity: “Let us be clear: many other countries particularly in the western part of the Region are now seeing widespread community transmission.
The health system strengthened in many areas
The websites of the Federal Centre for Health Education (BzGA), the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) and the Federal Ministry of Health are kept updated with information on the latest developments.
They are doing extensive contact tracing, active surveillance, isolating the cases and collating, and together with the contact tracing and multi-layered surveillance we are not seeing strong evidence of widespread community transmission in the Western Pacific Region.
New 2019-nCoV laboratories are also encouraged to send the first 5 positive and the first 10 negative 2019-nCoV samples to their referral laboratories for confirmation of test results. To ensure rapid and free-of-charge shipment of samples, WHO repurposed the Shipping Fund Project established by the GISRS.
While limited local person-to-person transmission of COVID-19 in countries outside of China was expected, the rapid increase in reported cases in Italy over the past two days is of concern.
Shining a light on violence is a first step towards perpetrators being held accountable.
WHO checklist to ensure hospitals in European Region are ready for COVID-19 patients
This has also resulted in behavioural change.
According to media reports, the concerned market was closed on 1 January 2020 for environmental sanitation and disinfection.
While the situation remains very serious, we are starting to see some encouraging signs.
Nevertheless, targeting specific weak areas may help both system resilience and overall health system performance.
With prevention and protection services on hold, those in need cannot access essential social services and care, nor be reached by those services.
The provision of safe water, sanitation and adequate hygiene (WASH) is essential to protecting human health during all infectious disease outbreaks.
Good morning.
On 30 January 2020, the WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, declared the current pandemic a public health emergency of international concern.
Why have some health systems coped better than others during the COVID-19 pandemic?
Support for older people, their families and their caregivers is an essential part of the countries’ comprehensive response to the pandemic.
It is to be possible to dispense in full or in part with the requirement that negative working hours balances be established before short-time work allowance can be paid.
Thirdly, Dr Kluge underlined that all levels of government and all sectors of society have a responsibility to address COVID-19.
In addition to this, it is important to take global action against corruption and illicit financial flows.
Credit insurance protects suppliers from defaults when a customer at home or abroad fails to pay the bill.
Many countries in Europe responded to that crisis by cutting public spending on health.
Each country should assess its risk, the measures in place and their social acceptability, and rapidly implement the necessary interventions at the appropriate scale to stop or slow down COVID-19 transmission while minimizing economic, public and social impacts.
It covers international coordination and operational support, scaling up country readiness and response operations, and accelerating priority research and innovation.
Swift liquidity assistance for businesses
The mission included visits to the capital and 3 regions, as well as multiple health-care facilities.
COVID-19 was an ever-present topic throughout the visit.
Plans for post-COVID-19 recovery, and specifically plans to reduce the risk of future epidemics, therefore need to go further upstream than early detection and control of disease outbreaks.
Applications can be made online.
Simple strategies that can address this can include giving young people the love and attention that they need to resolve their fears, and being honest with children, explaining what is happening in a way that they can understand, even if they are young.
When the time is right, it will adopt measures to foster economic development and maintain the high level of competitiveness of our companies.
The Chancellor expressly thanked all those who are considering how public life can be started up, and are developing careful and circumspect strategies to this end.
Those involved trust that their methods will also serve as a model for future country missions, highlighting best online practices whilst facilitating efficient knowledge transfer between WHO/Europe and countries, both during and after COVID-19.
Transitioning towards what we call ‘a new normal’ must be guided by public health principles, together with economic and societal considerations.
It also has tips for a diet that supports good health while many of us are advised to stay at home and may have less opportunities to consume fresh foods and be physically active.
Since I last reported to you 7 days ago, new cases have increased by over a quarter, and deaths by a third.
“Supporting and protecting older people living alone in the community is everyone’s business,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, addressing journalists at a virtual press briefing today. “I am reminding governments and authorities that all communities must be supported to deliver interventions to ensure older people have what they need.
“Now, we are looking into strategies for the transition period, including acceptance of digital solutions such as tracing apps, as well as the alleviation of measures or the acceptance of the contact bans among specific target groups.
I have worked with infectious diseases before, but this virus is different because we just don’t know enough about it.”
WHO/Europe is facilitating a first round of shipment of 192 kits (containing 100 tests each) to 20 laboratories in the Region.
The impact of this virus has darkened all our lives.
Increases in interpersonal violence during times of crisis are well documented.
It is not well-known for example, that nurses can develop their skills at university and master’s level as well, which offers a variety of possibilities for professional and personal growth.
A host of institutions and centres across Europe have considered how behavioural science can help tackle COVID-19.
They also met with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection to discuss cross-sectoral collaboration in responding to the pandemic.
I have three messages today.
Robert Koch Institute rates risk as moderate
While no case of the virus has yet been detected in these regions, information campaigns using translated WHO materials are under way to circulate updated and reliable information to local populations, including travellers.
The regional directors and WHO experts responded to a range of questions on issues including hospital preparedness, vaccine production, herd immunity, availability of testing kits and personal protective equipment, possible treatments, and “flattening the curve”.
It is facilitating laboratory detection, providing hospital preparedness guidelines and expertise to countries, and is providing technical support to strengthen surveillance systems and infection prevention and control.
Let me provide you with a brief overview of the current situation regarding COVID-19 across the 53 countries, and 900 million people living in the WHO European Region.
Therefore, people should minimize their alcohol consumption at any time, and particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic.
"And these are difficult decisions, there are difficult considerations to weigh up," underscored Angela Merkel.
The team found the clinic to be ready and well equipped, with dedicated and experienced medical staff to manage any patient infected with the COVID-19 virus.
In addition, from 1 March to 31 December 2020, employers can grant their employees financial assistance and support in the form of subsidies and non-cash benefits up to an amount of 1500 euros, which are exempted from tax and social security contributions.
“Not everyone is cut out to be a nurse.
I would like to conclude by saying that we are strongly recommending to our governments that the types of measures that are being taken of a multisectoral nature be based on evidence.
Where we have the greatest challenges is in the areas of infection prevention and control and case management.
“To dispel the mothers’ fears, we also have a psychologist communicating with the women over video calls.
At the start of the pandemic, our pharmacy staff were supported by a national regulatory agency to learn to recognize and respond to the symptoms of COVID-19.
It is not only chronological age that is the determinant of disease outcome.
The number of reported COVID-19 cases in Belarus is growing rapidly, with 6264 cases reported as of 20 April.
The Federal Government is supporting digital learning with a wide range of measures.
As a result, early sessions in Albania and Kazakhstan saw over 700 people connect.
As part of this support we have sent teams into countries to offer on-the-ground support and guidance.
The pandemic is the worst crisis that Europe has faced in its history, and a crisis on this scale calls for an appropriate response, said the Chancellor.
Follow-up suggestions include adopting an updated risk communication and community engagement plan to help combat public fatigue and to convey key messages, particularly around the transition.
As we step into a new future, vaccines will continue to serve as a foundation for health and well-being for all.
Assets will not be taken into account for the time being.
By 2030, it intends to provide a sum in the triple-digit billion euro range for climate change mitigation through its Climate Action Programme 2030 alone.
“Empowering people and leveraging behavioural and cultural insights for health is one of the 4 flagship initiatives I have identified for WHO/Europe, to deliver my vision of ‘united action for better health’.
To succeed with this, it is critical to gain an understanding of issues such as:
But I am also greatly inspired and humbled by the extraordinary solidarity I see in communities, among nations and across our Region to beat this virus, united.
We have seen from the South East Asian experience that if we focus on this, and do it well, we will contain the COVID-19 outbreak, and reduce the need for damaging shutdowns that cause so much misery for our people.
Strong and integrated management of public health services, primary care services, and management of hospitals and long-term care facilities is critical to navigate this delicate phase.
I appreciate the opportunity to share some reflections and observations from the African Region.
And, in turn, measures in the European Region may not necessarily be appropriate in other regions.
The European Region remains at the epicentre of the pandemic.
Emergency mechanism to kick in if new hotspots emerge
Up to 818,000 tests can be carried out per week at the present time.
UN Secretary-General António Guterres hosted the meeting jointly with Canada and Jamaica as representatives of the "Group of Friends of Financing the SDGs".
This has reduced the pressure on the intensive care resources in these countries and is saving lives.
To date, Azerbaijan has confirmed a small number of imported cases of COVID-19.
While policy-makers are often consumed by the urgent day-to-day stresses of running a health system, the COVID-19 pandemic has reminded everyone of the importance of longer-term planning and preparedness.
"Today we can be happy with what we have achieved."
This mission to Italy is one of the ways in which WHO/Europe is supporting countries across the Region.
I wish those who are ill from the disease a full and speedy recovery and send my deepest sympathy to people who have lost loved ones to the virus.
It is operated by the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH) and the technical scientific arm of the Ministry of Health while the Special Telecommunication Service (STS) provides telecommunication support.
Some have also donated sanitizers, detergents and protective gowns for health-care workers.”
Additionally, while two thirds (63%) reported that services for cardiovascular disease emergencies have not been disrupted, this was only the case for a quarter (24%) of hypertension management services.
The emergence of COVID-19, spreading through respiratory transmission, required the implementation of physical distancing measures throughout the Region, and this likely contributed to an abrupt end to the influenza season.
Although some countries in the western part of the Region are seeing transmission stabilize and in some instances decrease, note that 7 of the 10 countries reporting most new cases in the past 24 hours are in our Region – USA, Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, Turkey, Brazil, Germany, France and Canada.
At their meeting, the Chancellor and the eastern state premiers also signed a Joint Declaration on the 30th anniversary of German reunification.
One of the main challenges in preventing violence has been the lack of a coordinating body, bringing together both government and civil society.
The guidance is intended for people in self-quarantine without any symptoms or diagnosis of acute respiratory illness.
In the current outbreak of 2019-nCoV, most of the exported cases have been detected through entry screening.
In addition, Dr Kluge praised the President’s project “MKD 2030 – a strategic development framework for the country for the next 10 years”.
Here, in Europe, communities have also been impacted, in no country more than Italy, where, as you are fully aware, we have seen a rapid increase in cases in just a few days, some of them with no clear epidemiological links, such as a history of travel to China or contact with a confirmed case.
In this context, it carefully considers what measures are effectively preventing the spread of the virus and what social and economic costs they entail in each case.
Joint efforts are essential to defeat this disease and we must all work united against our common enemy, COVID-19.
In many of our settings, we do not have access to water in the home, so if we are asking people to wash their hands frequently we will need large volumes of sanitizers to be made available in homes to achieve some of these interventions.
To this end, funds from the EU Commission, the member states and financial institutions, particularly the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are to be pooled.
When we put proven measures in place - ensuring that we can identify, isolate and test all suspect cases, and quarantine and monitor the health of all close contacts; providing care to those who need it; together with physical distancing measures if necessary - we can stop the virus in its tracks.
“It is our mission to promote the profession of nursing, which is at the heart of the health-care system and is essential to cope with today’s challenges and those of the future.
Since then, it has provided a forum for open and constructive discussion at ministerial level.
The Global Shapers Community, which started life as a youth project with the World Economic Forum, is a network of more than 9000 young “shapers”, who are highly educated and socially driven individuals from across the globe.
Syndicate financing from the state-owned development bank KfW totals 3 billion euros, with private banks putting up 600 million euros.
An opportunity to check on each other, to call and video-chat, to be mindful and sensitive to the unique mental health needs of those we care for.
We wanted to help by creating a platform that would directly put experts and young people in touch,” explains Lahiru Elvitigala, incoming curator of the Copenhagen Global Shapers hub.
I’ll be sharing the key points of that guidance with Ministries of Health from the 53 Member States of the WHO European Region tomorrow morning.
The Federal Government can then, among other things, put in place measures to ensure the supply of medicines, cures and aids or to guarantee healthcare by providing additional personnel resources.
Albania finalized a new Ministry of Health Emergency Operation Plan in October 2019.
“When a person tests positive for the virus they feel a sense of shame and even guilt; patients feel tainted and worry about having infected others.
We amended checklists almost every day to find the right ways to operate”, said Dr Giuliani, who also worked in Monrovia when the Ebola outbreak occurred in 2004.
“During these 2 months, I worked as a nurse but also assisted as a translator when we were interviewing Arabic-speaking patients.
"In this way we also intend to trigger new dynamics for the future," said Angela Merkel.
The lives of millions of people in our region are undergoing radical change. There is, quite simply, a new reality.
At times of lockdown during the COVID-19 pandemic, alcohol consumption can exacerbate health vulnerability, risk-taking behaviours, mental health issues and violence.
Refugee nurse Ahmed Ahmed: working together to prevent COVID-19 infections in Turkey
The measures adopted are reviewed regularly by the German government and the individual federal states, to ensure that they are still necessary and proportionate, or to see where they need to be adapted.
Countries with no testing capacity can send their samples to the WHO appointed 2019-nCoV referral laboratories for testing.
The technical guidance sets out 10 strategic and operationally focused actions to support health service planners and health-care system managers in the Region to maintain the continuity and resourcing of priority services while mobilizing the health workforce to respond to the pandemic.
Taking the European Region as a whole, we are seeing an overall slowing of the pandemic.
Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, addressed this year’s World Health Assembly with a video statement, marking 100 days since being appointed WHO Regional Director for Europe.
“Our heroes, frontline people like nurses and health care workers, give the best of themselves every day – we must provide them with the right information, training and personal protective equipment”.
Experts from different disciplines – midwifery, nursing, neonatology, etc. – will outline the steps we have taken to guarantee a safe birthing experience for all.”
The measures required to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 have challenged our ability to prevent and respond to violence when and where it occurs.
Some people ask if there were infected people on a particular flight, while others complain about neighbours that have left the house despite isolation measures.”
WHO and Animus are currently running a joint advocacy and awareness-raising campaign to promote the importance of maintaining services for women and child victims of violence during the COVID-19 crisis and the state of emergency that is set to continue until 13 May.
All older people should be treated with respect and dignity during these times.
An economic recovery programme is needed in Europe, and this is also in Germany’s best interests, explained Chancellor Angela Merkel after the meeting.
Live broadcasts with these popular celebrities are being posted across various social media channels including Instagram and YouTube.
For people with noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), such as cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, diabetes or cancer, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on their health, revealing how vulnerable they are.
Strong coordination between all actors in charge of the response at central and regional levels is the basis of an effective response.
The Cabinet has also adopted the pertinent ordinance.
In line with the Sustainable Development Goals
“I graduated from my bachelor’s in nursing a year ago and worked in a general surgery and a geriatrics department, but nothing could have prepared me for the professional and emotional challenges I am facing now,” she explains at the end of her first week in the COVID-19 hospital, where she tends to 34 patients.
The idea that countries should shift from containment to mitigation is wrong and dangerous.”
Additional short and medium-term measures are also intended to help developing countries overcome the pandemic, chiefly via an emergency coronavirus package worth one billion euros.
"The best way of dealing with uncertainty is to provide well-founded information on the spot," said Jens Spahn.
I call on all countries to exchange country experiences and practices in a transparent and timely way.
This is particularly concerning to all of us.
And over the same period, deaths in the Region have increased more than 5-fold.
A network of nationally designated laboratories for testing of 2019-nCoV was also activated, primarily building on the existing laboratory network within the Global Influenza Surveillance and Response System (GISRS).
She added: “Nurses devote their lives to caring for members of the community of all ages, including mothers and children; giving lifesaving immunizations and health advice; and looking after older people – and they merit our unwavering recognition and support”.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, it is vital that authorities maintain the trust of the population in immunization and the health system.
Gavi and CEPI specialise in the treatment and prevention of life-threatening diseases in developing countries.
Sign of hope at this difficult time
In his statement, Dr Kluge underlined 3 key points.
“Armenia lacks epidemiologists, but we are seeking to integrate some IPC components into training at medical universities,” said Romella Abovyan, Head of the Department for Epidemiology of Noncommunicable Diseases and Nosocomial Infections, National Centre of Disease Control and Prevention, Armenia. “The simulation exercise we did today was very important for us.
In addition to closing kindergartens and schools and cancelling events, these guidelines initially provided for restrictions regarding spending time out of doors, as well as the closure of bars and restaurants, shops and service outlets where physical proximity is unavoidable.
As you will hear from my colleague shortly, working as one, WHO’s command and control system has been activated across all levels of the Organization.
Ideally, resilience is not about bouncing back to the pre-shock state but about evolving into something better.
We will do everything that is humanly possible to overcome this situation together and we will succeed – we must.
World Health Assembly adopts resolution to intensify efforts to control COVID-19 at virtual session
Although all age groups are at risk of contracting COVID-19, older people face significant risk of developing severe illness if they contract the disease due to physiological changes that come with ageing and potential underlying health conditions.
Across the European Region, long-term care has often been notoriously neglected.
An economy where we leave no one behind.
She pledged her support for the country’s health offices. She stressed, "We all know that the public health offices and the public health service play a pivotal role in fighting the pandemic."
I believe our efforts are what led the government to task me with overseeing all health-care professionals during the current COVID-19 pandemic.
“On the first day at the COVID-19 hospital, I entered a room where a patient was crying.
The experience of doctors in Italy has contributed to the preparation of WHO’s guidance on preparedness, prevention and control of COVID-19 in prisons and other places of detention.
Hospital and health-care workers have been overwhelmed with testing and treatment.
This allows those responsible to shape their transition measures and related communications,” she added.
This is set against declining worry and perceived risk from the virus itself, and falling compliance with recommended behaviours.
Would the Fund provide grants or loans?
“We have disseminated infection screening checklists aimed especially at detainees.
“The prevention and control of NCDs therefore has a crucial role in the COVID-19 response. If the COVID-19 response is not adapted to encompass prevention and management of NCD risks, we will fail many people at a time when their vulnerability is heightened.”
The characterization of COVID-19 as a pandemic does not change WHO’s risk assessment and recommendations, which stress that countries should adopt a mix of interventions based on an analysis of the local situation and context, with containment as a major pillar.
“The only thing we ask you is to stay at home for us.
Our health systems and services are valued like never before.
The German government will introduce a disembarkation card to be filled in by everyone arriving by ship or by air.
“During work I did not think about my refugee status, I did not feel separate from the common efforts of the Turkish health system.
“Before the first COVID-19 cases emerged, we prepared different isolation facilities: for suspected cases and for new arrivals”, added Dr Giuliani. “We set up screening and temperature checking equipment at the prison entrance.
Dr Storozhenko highlights the response to this online WHO initiative as a great example of solidarity and goodwill.
On 12 April, the number of people recovered from COVID‐19 within one day exceeded the number of reported new infections on the same day for the first time.
However, I try to minimise the risk to others by following protective measures.
The Länder can extend this to further groups of professions and persons who need childcare.
The Cabinet launched both new regulations on Wednesday.
Despite the scale of this challenge, our country is well placed to weather this serious situation.
Several countries are yet to feel its full impact, while others are experiencing a dip as numbers of new cases of COVID-19 are falling.
The outbreak is progressing at different speeds in different countries, depending on demographics and other factors.
This is one of the team’s conclusions at the end of its 12-day mission to Italy on 6 March.
This aligns with the containment strategy currently being implemented globally in an effort to stop the spread of COVID-19.
“The riots calmed down really quickly, in a couple of days.
“COVID-19 impacts the elderly and those with pre-existing health conditions most severely.
Older people are often dependent on the support from communities and carers in maintaining daily routines, staying active, and eating nutritious, balanced meals.
Labelling requirements are being eased in order to effectively address the scarcity of urgently needed medical products.
My first message: The best way to protect the economy is to protect people.
The Chancellor underlined that elderly people in care homes, who have not been allowed to have visitors for weeks are "particularly important" to her.
“The first challenge was a thorough reorganization of the health-care infrastructure, where many units were repurposed to provide services solely dedicated to COVID-19.
Germany intends to put in place the conditions that will make travelling and holidays possible – but only where circumstances are such that this is responsible, said Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Heiko Maas at a press conference on Monday.
This interim report provides an overview of the measures taken, and also contains information about recent developments with respect to key indicators.
“Stronger laboratory capacity in Tajikistan will benefit many response core functions, including disease detection, contact tracing and testing for COVID-19.
It is essential that we address the public mental health challenges over the coming weeks and months in Europe and beyond:
Some donate food for health-care professionals, who work long hours each day and isolate themselves at home to avoid the risk of infecting others; some have donated mobile phones to hospitalized patients who otherwise could have had no contact with their families; and yet others, have donated protective gear.”
The European Commission should raise this sum on the capital market and channel it to crisis-affected states as aid within the scope of the EU’s multiannual financial framework.
Albania developed an action plan for measures to be taken by health authorities at all potential points of entry into the country, in cooperation with point-of-entry authorities.
Compared with other countries, Germany already had a high level of available intensive care beds.
Your burden is Europe’s burden and that is why I am here today.
This is why at the conference Germany pledged 525 million euros for the Global Response Initiative.
But we also recognize that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to doing this.
The individual federal states will regulate the details.
Chancellor Angela Merkel explained that the goal is to have the funding available as of 1 June.
Mental health and psychosocial support services should be in place, and child protection services need to adapt to ensure that the care is still available for the children of families who need it.
Taking the appropriate actions in a timely manner can affect the course of this pandemic.
WHO/Europe prioritizes developing strong relationships with a wide range of audiences including young people, with trust at the heart of all its risk communication and community engagement activities.
This virus will stay with us for a long time, at least until a safe vaccine or effective treatments become available.
We are now at the fork in the road.
The WHO and UNICEF regional offices have joined forces to develop this innovative tool for countries that delivers accurate, timely and tailored messages about COVID-19, based on evidence we are gathering every day,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
Global solidarity and cooperation across borders were welcomed by states from all over the European Region.
Thanks to the way people have behaved, we have managed to better control the progress of the pandemic.
The provisions of the Own Resources Decision must be adopted unanimously and then ratified by national parliaments, in Germany by the German Bundestag.
This week, we have an expert mission on the ground in Tajikistan, working with national authorities and health providers to respond to the outbreak in the country.
“Being able to communicate freely without any language barriers and in a non-judgmental way is of the essence during contact tracing, especially as identifying possibly infected individuals is a time-sensitive matter.
When assessing the options for immunization services during the COVID-19 pandemic, ministries should consider: What is the potential risk of an increase in VPDs?
Germany will be pushing ahead to expand the use of renewables.
In addition, the Economic Stabilisation Fund will acquire a 20% share in Lufthansa as part of a capital increase.
Your governments can be assured that the resources we receive, both human and financial, are being prioritized in those countries where the needs and risks are higher, and where health systems and preparedness capacities are lower.
At the next scheduled meeting of the German government with the state premiers of all federal states on 17 June, testing strategies will be discussed and lessons learned with nursery and school re-opening shared.
One of the most critical elements of reducing virus transmission is public behaviour.
People have already gained an increased understanding of the importance of our work and are expressing their gratitude either in person or on social media.
Across Europe, funds totalling 20 billion euros are to be mobilised to support developing and newly industrialised countries.
“In 2014, I had to flee my home city, Luhansk, to escape the military conflict in eastern Ukraine.
Throughout the visit, the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak dominated media coverage.
It provides for over 500 billion euros in assistance – with loans from the European Investment Bank for small and medium enterprises, an EU short-time work allowance and precautionary credit lines from the ESM for member states.
“The virus spreads easily in social groups: police officers are more likely to infect other police officers, health care workers – to infect other health care workers and so on.
Now, as in past weeks the situation in the European Region remains serious.
“The COVID-19 pandemic has proven once again that the role of nurses and midwives is paramount in ensuring public health.
Now, when traveling is restricted, I communicate with nurses online or over the phone.
In 2020 the measures to tackle the pandemic and its consequences, financed from the national budget, will be worth about 453 billion euros.
We know Europe’s potential to stand together, and I want to reassure you of the commitment among countries in our Region to support Europe in any way possible, just as we appreciate the strong support we are receiving from Europe.
Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General, has welcomed the resolution on global commitment to the COVID-19 response adopted by Member States during the Seventy-third World Health Assembly.
In conclusion, let me repeat my appeal.
This includes being ready at the local and national levels to detect sick people, test samples of those suspected of 2019-nCoV infection, manage patients adequately, maximize infection control, and maintain open communication with the public.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) has be delivered to 17 countries providing frontline health workers – our heroes - with the protection they need to care for COVID-19 patients.
Consuming any alcohol poses health risks, but consuming high-strength ethyl alcohol (ethanol), particularly if it has been adulterated with methanol, can result in severe health consequences, including death.
Sports clubs can, without losing their non-profit status, become involved outside the framework of their statutory purpose by, for instance, helping those in need with shopping for groceries.
Working with medical and nursing colleagues, the therapy services team at the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust in central London is at the front line in caring for patients with COVID-19.
"They have received additional support.
The leaders at that time did not wait for victory to plan for what would follow.
As many countries in the WHO European Region still struggle with the COVID-19 pandemic, refugees and migrants are playing an important part in efforts to fight the coronavirus, supporting health systems and communities with their skills across the Region.
With the provision of 300 million euros, the Federal Foreign Office is responding to the calls of the United Nations and the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement for global humanitarian assistance.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has pointed to all that has been achieved in the fight against COVID-19.
“Clean hands save lives” and “Applaud health-care workers” campaigns celebrated in North Macedonia
Participants took part in training, discussions and a simulation exercise in order to provide them with a clearer picture of the complexities and challenges associated with COVID-19 and containing potential outbreaks, as well as familiarizing them with the tools and resources available.
Now our objective is to support the authorities in managing the spread of the virus, contributing with the WHO Country Office.
Summarizing violence as “preventable, not inevitable”, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, emphasized 3 key actions during his weekly COVID-19 press briefing on 7 May 2020:
Consequently, even a modest rise in admission volume can overwhelm a hospital beyond its functional reserve.
Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, said: “This document aims to support countries by providing key considerations for the slow easing of restrictions and transitioning to a ‘new normal’.
We cannot say that in China we have passed the peak, we say we have passed one of the peaks, and we are doing our best to help prevent a resurgence.
WHO/Europe publishes considerations for gradual easing of COVID-19 measures
Governments across the Region must use every opportunity possible to protect people from the many diseases for which vaccines are already available.
Travel only if it is absolutely necessary and avoid travelling at rush hour.
Dr Kluge also met with President Mr Stevo Pendarovski, who underlined how seriously he is taking the issue of air pollution.
WHO launches checklist to support prison administrators and policy-makers for rapid and effective response to COVID-19
Lockdowns, physical distancing and travel restrictions in many countries impact people living with NCDs in many ways, as people:
This is the time for accurate reporting from official sources.
In the eastern part of the Region - Belarus, the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and Ukraine - cases have increased in the past week, while in Turkey the situation is stabilizing.
“In close collaboration with leaders and experts from other areas, we were able to implement structural changes to our midwifery department infusing new confidence into the midwives under my lead.
The aim of the new "KfW rapid loan 2020" is to support small and medium businesses in particular with swift liquidity assistance.
During periods of hot weather, it is important to keep cool to avoid the negative health effects of heat.
To the Italian people: Protect yourselves and others from getting sick by adhering to the guidance from your public health authorities and stay healthy while travelling.
Member States also called for equitable and transparent access to any future vaccine or medicine for COVID-19.
This is indeed a whole-of-government collaboration, and we are grateful for the transparent information-sharing that is critical for us to better understand this outbreak and support response efforts,” she said.
Currently about 40 per cent of intensive care unit beds are reserved, and hospitals are receiving financial compensation for leaving them empty for COVID-19 patients.
We should apply rapid, robust and rigorous containment and suppression of COVID-19 outbreaks as they start: we must act quickly because the public health task and socio-economic consequences are so much harder even if we delay by a day or two.
"A very, very important meeting"
Approaches to sustaining high levels of routine immunization coverage will also vary among countries.
Dear ministers and delegates, my number one priority is to support you and your countries in these challenging times.
This would make it possible to identify contact chains quickly and comprehensively in the future and to inform those who have come into contact with infected people about further steps without delay.
“This article provides important considerations for health authorities across the Region when designing responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, taking NCDs into account,” explained Dr João Breda. “As patients with chronic diseases are at greater risk of COVID-19, there is a real danger of an extra burden being placed on stretched health services across the Region.
“Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many of my projects have been postponed.
However, we are still in the early stages of understanding this new virus, where it came from and how it affects people – including how severe the infection is and how well it spreads from person to person.
It is estimated that every year, 23 million people fall ill and approximately 4700 people die from consuming contaminated food.
WHO/Europe reminds people that drinking alcohol does not protect them from COVID-19, and encourages governments to enforce measures which limit alcohol consumption.
Statement for the joint press conference on COVID-19
Existing rules and regulations to protect health and reduce harm caused by alcohol, such as restricting access, should be upheld and even reinforced during the COVID-19 pandemic and emergency situations; while any relaxation of regulations or their enforcement should be avoided.
For more information about COVID-19 in the WHO European Region and the work of the WHO European Office fighting the pandemic, please visit our website
Social allowances for low income families in Uzbekistan have been temporarily extended by an extra 6 months.
Furthermore, as an Organization, I ask your governments to grant us, the World Health Organization, freedom of passage and travel to perform our duty, to serve you.
So, should another surge occur, we will be better prepared in terms of our understanding of the virus, what interventions work best and how we have to be ready for it by collaborating and adopting a whole of society approach.
School closures, transport bans and workplace shutdowns helped to limit transmission of COVID-19.
So, we must, all of us, be vigilant and behave responsibly, for all our sakes.
"It would be most desirable if as many countries as possible in the world were to embrace this," said Angela Merkel.
Germany’s authorities took steps at an early stage to tackle the epidemic at the federal, Land and municipal level.
As of next year Germany is to introduce CO2 pricing in the traffic and heating sectors.
And my third point: From now on, quality, resourced, strong and sustainable long term care systems that prioritize people’s needs and dignity must be our gold standard.
Such changes in eating behaviour could have a negative effect on the immune system, overall physical and mental health, and the well-being of individuals globally.
In addition to the value, the voucher must state:
In addition, the resolution calls on countries to ensure equitable access to – and fair distribution of – essential health technologies and products, such as diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines, to combat the virus.
Along with the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFR 2021-2027) the Fund is to define the entire EU budget.
GOARN is able to call on the expertise of more than 200 technical institutions and networks around the world.
It will be essential to resume reliable management of chronic diseases, such as tuberculosis, diabetes and cancer.
Over 10 weeks we have undertaken 51 in-country technical support missions to 18 priority countries in the Region – providing laboratory support to hospital preparedness, operational planning to readiness-testing.
In close cooperation with civil society, the Federal Government is also discussing support measures for people with special needs and for vulnerable groups.
Another vital information resource we are compiling is the Health Systems Response Monitor, that collects and organizes evidence on how countries are responding to the crisis through health systems’ and wider public health initiatives together with the European Commission.
Any rental arrears must be reimbursed by 30 June 2022 at the latest.
Through the sterling work of these centres, use of antimicrobials has fallen by around 40% since 2015.
Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses transmitting between animals and people that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV).
Also, sharing information on where to get help, increasing awareness of the signs of violence, expanding helplines, maintaining programmes on social and parenting skills, following up on pre-existing situations can all make a positive difference.
This will help counter the potentially dramatic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in countries already facing a humanitarian crisis.
These numbers do not necessarily reflect an increase in violence of these proportions, but since these services are often the only options that adults and children have (or perceive to have) during lockdown restrictions, they are an important indicator of what is happening in homes across the Region.
The situation remains very fragile and could quickly relapse if the basic measures are not scaled up, their surge maintained and if the transition is not planned carefully and gradually.
The WHO European Region has 14 WHO-certified EMTs ready to deliver rapid health care when disaster strikes or an outbreak flares.
Sadly, over 110,000 people have lost their lives.
The Federal Government is also providing an additional 15 million euros to enable schools throughout Germany to access the Schul-Cloud (schools cloud) developed by the Hasso Plattner Institute.
The funds are to go to bodies including the World Food Programme, international non-governmental organisations, UNHCR, the World Health Organization, UNICEF and the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement.
The preparedness effort has included:
Let me also repeat my heartfelt gratitude to those on the frontline, in health, social and other services, working relentlessly to save lives.
Worldwide, and in Germany, the situation is extremely dynamic.
It focused on the Franco-German initiative for European economic recovery.
Together with the German Bundestag and liaising closely with the Länder, the Federal Government has responded swiftly, decisively and comprehensively to the spread of SARS-CoV-2.
The Ministry of Health and Italian National Institute of Health have reiterated that routine immunization services should remain a priority, as far as possible.
This includes, but is not limited to, WHO’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and will also review the wider global response.
Many of you are asking me to assess this or that country’s performance during the pandemic.
If countries do not have adequate all-of-society and all-of-government preparedness and response strategies in place, if your health workforce is not trained, equipped and protected, if your citizens are not informed and empowered with evidence-based information, then the pandemic will sweep through your communities, businesses and health systems, taking lives and livelihoods with it.
This has allowed us to support those responsible for pandemic response activities.
To this end, long-term contracts should be concluded with companies, which will undertake to expand or re-launch the production of protective masks in Germany at short notice in return for price guarantees and guaranteed sales of certain volumes.
“While some competencies are common to all midwives, such as the ability to use technological tools and programs and provide neonatal emergency assistance, there are also some specialized competencies that require careful allocation, such as the ability to work as surgical instrumentalists assisting doctors during a caesarean birth in the operating room.”
Understanding how, why and the context in which people and communities respond to different pandemic response interventions helps inform government decisions, shape communications and guide the planning of measures.
In the most recent cases in North Rhine-Westphalia, the infection was diagnosed at an early stage, reported Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn. The affected individuals have been isolated and are receiving treatment.
In low-income settings, in urban slums, it may be quite difficult for a person to lock themselves away in a room, because there are simply not enough rooms in the home.
Strong health systems are an essential foundation for detecting and managing diseases, as well as ensuring the health of the public.
WHO joins forces with 17 central European countries to step up tailored COVID-19 response
Despite this, we have seen an incredible show of solidarity in the behaviour of people and communities.
It is also clear that we will help one another if the number of infections begin to rise again.
Statement – COVID-19: Multisectoral measures should be evidence-based
The most vulnerable, who are often left behind by immunization services, should not suffer the added burden of vaccine-preventable diseases.
They advocate an ambitious 500 billion euro reconstruction fund.
The highest risk was among the staff working with detainees in hospitals.
Staff have put in place infection prevention and control procedures to protect themselves and their families and have been advised to report and act if they feel unwell. “Many of my therapy staff colleagues who are treating COVID-19 patients are staying away from their families to protect them,” added Ms Murray.
The lives of millions of people in the WHO European Region are undergoing radical change.
Of the 44 countries in the European Region that have implemented partial or full domestic movement restrictions, 21 countries have started easing some of these measures to different degrees, and a further 11 are planning to do so in the coming days.
In addition, it is important to monitor the uptake of vaccines and, if applicable, seek to understand the reasons for any drop in coverage, including barriers to vaccination.
In countries with community transmission of COVID-19, over 40% of total confirmed COVID-19 deaths occur in long-term care facilities, and in some cases, this is closer to 60%.
He also urged them to allow WHO experts to travel to, from and within countries freely to provide support.
Second, we should assure that health is kept at the top of the agenda:
With China recording fewer and fewer cases – and today with no new domestic cases – the European Region is today the epicenter of the pandemic, representing over 40% of global cases.
Hotels in France and Belgium have been converted to shelters.
They offer a basic, safe starting point for making sure we all keep moving while staying at home,” said Lea Nash Castro, Nutrition and Physical Activity Officer at WHO/Europe.
In short, our behaviour, our choices, determine where this road leads us, and where it ends.
Today, the European Region accounts for 46% of cases and 63% of deaths globally.
All hospitals need to take precautions against potential interruptions of critical support services and shortages of equipment and supplies.
Our 40 midwives were promptly trained in the effective usage of personal protective equipment and infection prevention measures.”
It is up to us to make this happen.
When we put proven measures in place - ensuring that we:
So let me underline what is crystal clear: the European Region remains very much in the grip of this pandemic.
The chatbot, developed by WHO/Europe and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Europe and Central Asia Regional Office (ECARO), will help countries in the region to access accurate information, and counter misinformation surrounding the virus.
Catch up as quickly as possible where needed.
Building on World Health Assembly resolution WHA63.3, this Strategic Plan sets out 3 global strategic directions that cover all aspects of food safety:
Within the province, Khotyn District is the one most affected by the virus – here 10 health workers have been infected.
This should increase incentives for businesses and private households to invest in climate-friendly alternatives in order to cut CO2 costs and emissions.
The need to prepare for health emergencies is a fundamental part of WHO’s 13th General Programme of Work (GPW 13), which commits to the target of 1 billion more people better protected from health emergencies.
Those with symptoms should sneeze or cough into a flexed elbow or into a tissue that is immediately discarded in a closed bin.
A novel coronavirus is a new strain of coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans.
In line with regulations which the churches and religious communities have worked out together, church services and public prayers are to be permitted again.
Volunteer organizations in Serbia have helped Roma children with distance learning.
As robust health systems come under strain, Dr Aylward explained that contingency planning in all countries comes to the fore.
While acknowledging the breadth of the concept, for operational (and assessment) purposes we propose using a definition that focuses on shocks, which we consider to be sudden and extreme changes which will impact on a health system.
Even though COVID-19 is at the forefront of people’s minds, the new guidelines also highlight the importance of keeping pharmacies stocked up with commonly used medicines, as well as ensuring that they can continue to provide for those with chronic medical conditions.
I would also like to express my thanks to everyone for adhering to the national and local measures and restrictions in place over the last holiday weekend, and appeal to all to continue following these as we approach orthodox Easter in the coming days.
The rate of increase has been particularly marked in 4 of the 5 countries with the highest number of cases (Spain, France, Germany and Switzerland).
Even with scarce ingredients, one can continue to eat a healthy diet.
I think that pharmacists have a strong sense of community spirit and, fortunately, so do the people and government of Kyrgyzstan.
The guidelines stress the importance of keeping up-to-date information.
Access to basic income has been simplified considerably in order to support self-employed people and artists in particular.
We also remind visitors to maintain a distance between each other.
Our UN partner UNFPA has sounded the alarm loud and clear – if lockdowns were to continue for 6 months, we would expect an extra 31 million cases of gender-based violence globally.
The next step is thus the proposal of the European Commission, which it presented on 27 May – the Next Generation EU.
The same applies to employees whose work is essential with respect to ensuring the operation of the healthcare system.
Physical distancing or quarantine, and the associated stress, can increase risk factors for NCDs like unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, and harmful use of tobacco and alcohol,” said Dr João Breda, Head of the WHO European Office for the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases.
Such insights into public behaviour form the basis of effective communication and can identify issues related to stigma or conspiracy myths, for example, as they emerge, thus ensuring that they are addressed quickly and effectively.
“Health-care workers take care of one another too – they call sick colleagues twice a day, offer psychological and emotional support, and share the lessons they have learned on our daily conference calls and phone chat groups.
Nature is both the origin of infectious and vector-borne diseases and the source of medicines, including many antibiotics.
I felt inspired by their calm manner and professional approach.”
This affects not only those in need of long-term care, many of whom are older people, but also their families who are put at risk of infection.
The WHO European Office for Investment for Health and Development based in Venice, Italy, has been geared up to provide on-the-ground, direct emergency support to the COVID-19 response in Italy.
This includes establishing how to promptly detect sick people, testing samples from suspect cases, ensuring appropriate infection control and case management to minimize the risk of the virus spreading, and maintaining communication with the public.
As many people are currently confined to their homes because of the COVID-19 pandemic, WHO/Europe has developed a guide to help people integrate simple, safe ways to stay physically active in limited space.
“The Italian health system was another factor that contributed to the effectiveness of penitentiary infection control measures”, added Dr Roberto Ranieri, who also devotes his work to infection control in the San Vittore prison.
Does this also constitute a population sub-group that is more at risk than we have observed in other regions?
The Harz District Health Office was particularly stretched when there was a COVID-19 outbreak at the end of March at the central reception station for migrants in Halberstadt.
Dr Kluge conveyed a special message to younger viewers: “If keeping your grandparents safe means you can’t visit them in person, talk to them every day so that they don’t feel alone.
We must bring together physicians, nurses, pharmacists, social and other health care professionals, care workers, and above all, care home residents themselves, in decision-making and care provision.
These measures will help cut the spread of the virus, and allow for the managed opening once again of such homes to families and visitors.
While taking care of yourself, plan to check on family, friends and neighbours who spend much of their time alone.
The guidance identifies ten policy objectives, together with proposed actions and examples from across the Region, to inspire decision-makers, policy-makers and national or regional health authorities as they seek ways to prevent and manage the COVID-19 pandemic in long-term care services.
"The aim is to ensure that Europe emerges from this crisis stronger, united and in a spirit of solidarity," declared Angela Merkel.
A story from Kyrgyzstan illustrates this problem on the ground.
“I want nurses to be strong and independent, to lead and be involved at all levels of decision-making,” says Government Chief Nursing Officer (GCNO) Shoshy Goldberg, from the Israeli Ministry of Health.
Take Germany.
The activities of many providers of social services have been massively curtailed by the pandemic.
The focus was on an initiative proposed by Germany and France to foster economic recovery in Europe after the crisis.Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron have proposed a Franco-German initiative for European economic recovery in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Because of the coronavirus pandemic this meeting, the 47th of its kind, took the form of a video conference.
WHO/Europe strongly recommends the integration of intercultural mediators into health-care systems across the European Region to provide equitable care to refugees and migrants.
As a result, the easing of restrictions will be gradual and many will return to a new normal of hand hygiene, coughing etiquette and distancing routines.
It is designed to finance specific measures to overcome the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic, which was not within the control of individual member states.
The elderly and those with underlying health issues are understood to be most at risk from the virus.
It became evident that there was huge stress and concern among detainees, as well as among prison staff, so we set up compulsory psychological consultations for people to help them cope with stress”, Dr Giuliani recalls.
The Regional Office is working in an agile way, repurposing staff and adapting as the situation changes, directing our support to where it is most needed.
The European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies has just published a new policy brief, “Strengthening health systems resilience”, which includes a framework to help policy-makers understand health system resilience and how to strengthen it.
Its impacts can be particularly difficult for older people who may be experiencing cognitive decline or dementia.
“This pandemic has shone a spotlight on the overlooked and undervalued corners of our society,” emphasizes Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe. “Across the WHO European Region, long-term care has often been notoriously neglected.
The time is now to make ourselves ready.
This protection is key in trying to prevent patients from needing ventilation and a worsening of their condition,” said Suzanne Murray, lead for the critical care rehabilitation team at the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust.
Today, measles continues to spread in some parts of the Region – affecting over 6000 people in the first two months of this year.
At the country level, local hubs have kept WHO country offices aware of opportunities to engage in community initiatives and tailor messages to local audiences in local languages.
In this situation it is important to do everything to protect the people as far as possible, while stemming and slowing the outbreak.
Protecting children, adolescents and adults from vaccine-preventable diseases through vaccination is a must for the sustainability of health care systems.
Thank you.
After 2 weeks of high influenza activity, country reporting of influenza data was interrupted starting from late February, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and became increasingly sparse over the following months.
I draw my motivation from the solidarity I am witnessing and the deep commitment of all health-care workers, who are dedicated to fighting this virus 24 hours a day.
Learning from the past, looking to the future, I have 3 messages today.
Now is the time for solidarity and cooperation, to work together to protect everyone’s health,” added Dr Kluge.
“While we are a tertiary-care midwifery unit and are therefore familiar with emergency and intensive care assistance, we had to adapt to the infectious character of the coronavirus.
The basic principles that each individual should know to prevent foodborne diseases remain relevant, and some also offer protection from COVID-19, such as handwashing.
The social data generated by the surveys helped to improve services to support mental health during the crisis, to develop material for families and children, to develop the content of websites for the elderly, to provide content for young people and dating and to develop specific information on the right way of wearing, preserving and cleaning facial masks.
Instead of the income from the last six months, the income of the last month before the application now forms the basis for these applications.
This must include:
So, my three messages today:
Probable and confirmed 2019-nCoV cases should be reported to WHO/Europe, according to the IHR.
During a press briefing on COVID-19, Dr Bruce Aylward, Special Adviser to WHO’s Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, highlighted the need for countries to understand that the virus can overwhelm even the most robust health systems, resulting in the need to entirely reconfigure health sectors in response.
Before the summer holidays, schools are to reopen for all schoolchildren.
I know we can beat this virus; we can fight it together.
It is time to leave no one behind or on the sidelines.
It is a package of comprehensive measures that can bring the best results.
The German government has set up a coronavirus crisis unit.
Last Friday, we issued policy considerations on how to strengthen and adjust public health measures through COVID-19 transition phases.
In the Netherlands, the social survey found willingness to comply with quarantine and isolation was very high but that young males are the least willing to comply.
The Federal Government has increased funding to a total of 15 million euros in order to accelerate the development of therapies and drugs.
National resources should also be mobilized.
Well-prepared laboratories are first line of defence against novel coronavirus in Europe
Let me be clear: WHO’s role is not to offer any assessment on how particular countries have responded to the challenge.
Many today are prevented from receiving visits from family and friends, no longer getting the emotional and physical support that such visits provide.
Remember, we leave no one behind.”
To ensure health protection, and prevent the further spread of the virus from other countries, a number of different steps have been taken.
Let us remember, we are not measuring lives against livelihoods, nor health against wealth.
Here, I ask your governments to seriously consider and reconsider steps taken to close borders and impose import/export restrictions.
When I was a child, I thought that everyone studied medicine and worked at hospitals, and never considered a different profession for myself either.
Event organisers can issue vouchers for music, cultural, sporting and leisure events that have had to be cancelled as well as for leisure establishments that have been closed instead of reimbursing costs.
We showed them that there were machines already being used for HIV and tuberculosis testing, and planned to be used for cervical cancer screening, which could immediately test for COVID-19, saving them time and money,” explains Dr Isabelle Heard, an expert from IARC, who provided technical guidance.
WHO and UNICEF offices at the regional and country levels will support their partners in deploying the chatbot locally.
Declaring a PHEIC will ensure continued support to the response in China and accelerated preparedness in all countries.
If we all pull together and recognize that this is the time to put health first, above all other considerations, we can overcome this difficult and challenging moment.
“I see in the current emergency, an opportunity to bring about change.
I am currently studying public administration at the Kyiv School of Economics.
It is equally imperative to directly involve refugee and migrant health-care workers and community leaders in developing health system strategies to ensure that these communities are represented and their specific needs are reflected in prevention, response and transition measures.
Two patients were detected in Paris and one in Bordeaux.
There was a focus on the need to understand the implications of a second COVID-19 wave and make sure steps are taken to strengthen the capacity of countries to respond in the face of another similar crisis.
In the 53 countries of the European Region alone there are 2000 volunteers in city hubs across nearly every country.
These include many of the strategies that we are advocating across the entire population, such as undertaking physical activity, keeping to routines or creating new ones, and engaging in activities which give a sense of achievement.
Committed to transparency, accountability and continuous improvement, Dr Tedros plans to initiate an independent evaluation as part of the resolution.
And I thank our partners in the Russian Federation, Germany, United Kingdom, Poland who have been joining our operations through provision of Emergency Medical Teams, Mobile Labs and other experts.
Dr Kluge also highlighted the need for continued solidarity as the world seeks to manage the COVID-19 pandemic.
It will resurge again if we do not do everything in our power to stop it.
Delivering NCD services in a time of COVID-19 – stories from the field
The national helpline for children, that offers information, counselling and help to children over the phone, received 80 reports of a parent abusing another parent in March alone, according to the Minister of Internal Affairs.
“Each country has to confront COVID-19 at the national level.
It is important that countries work together, learn from each other and harmonize efforts.
In times of crisis, health professionals perform miracles.
This regulation also applies temporarily until the end of 2020.
We have much to learn from each other.
Will immunization programme staff be needed to help manage the COVID-19 situation?
Were staff and patients given up-to-date instructions?
This again demonstrates the strong links between African and European countries.
Your role in an outbreak is not simply to chase the story; it is to perform a public service.
The role of public health services is understood.
As the COVID-19 situation evolves, lessons learned and information sharing at all levels will continue to improve the Region’s defences.
Dr Heard points to the strength of the interdisciplinary and interagency network already in place at the time, which made it possible to adapt quickly and efficiently to the evolving COVID-19 situation.
Make no mistake, we remain in very turbulent water and will do so for some time.
Health facilities must have the necessary equipment to care for those seriously affected and to protect health workers from exposure.
It also sent experts in infection prevention and control to Greece, to help define cases and improve testing policies and contact tracing using Go Data, outbreak investigation software developed by GOARN for field data collection.
Your actions are public health actions in every respect.
We will stay at work for you.”
Its members include global, regional and national public health institutions; specialist public health networks in epidemiology, infection control and biomedical sciences; networks of laboratories; many United Nations organizations; and international nongovernmental organizations.
For over 100 days we have been battling COVID-19 around the world.
China’s first phase of public health response to COVID-19 focused on short-term measures to stop the virus spreading from Hubei to the rest of the country, and within the general population.
To prepare and be ready: every person, every health worker, every health facility must be ready to protect and care.
In addition, the Federation and the Länder have worked together to create flexible framework conditions, for example by temporarily lifting the restrictions on Sunday and public holiday driving for lorries and relaxing the regulations on driving and rest periods.
Describing the situation as a pandemic requires countries to accelerate their efforts, striking the right balance between protecting health, preventing economic and social disruption, and respecting human rights.
WHO/Europe COVID-19 mission arrives in Tajikistan: International experts to support country’s response to the pandemic
Any steps to ease social and physical distancing measures MUST be carefully considered and gradually undertaken.
"The coronavirus knows no borders.
WHO/Europe is developing guidance to support and advise rehabilitation professionals throughout the pandemic.
It is, however, particularly important to the Chancellor to point out, "We are entering a new phase of the pandemic."
Due to the global nature of travel, it is expected that further exported cases of 2019-nCoV may appear in other countries and the possibility of other cases arriving in the European Region is likely. WHO encourages countries in the European Region to continue to prepare in case this new virus is imported. WHO rapid response team concludes mission to Italy for COVID-19 response
The rehabilitation therapy teams are strictly following guidelines set by local authorities, the UK government and WHO/Europe and are, of course, supporting each other to keep up morale.
That could mean that restrictions in certain regions have to be maintained or reintroduced after being eased for a period.
You are doing a good job right now, but you have to keep up and sustain these efforts so that no one is left behind because ultimately health is a political choice.
Mass cultural events, celebrations and gatherings were postponed and some businesses closed.
Then, she said, we can manage to defend the country against the virus and we can pass this extremely difficult test.
Tenants should not have to worry about losing their homes or business premises due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
At the 11th Petersberg Climate Dialogue, Chancellor Angela Merkel has advocated that economic recovery programmes should take account of the imperatives of climate change mitigation.
Speaking from Manila in the Philippines, Dr Takeshi Kasai, WHO Regional Director for the Western Pacific Region, began his update on a note of optimism.
“The Polish EMT’s COVID-19 experience acquired in virus-hit Italy, Poland and Kyrgyzstan is an asset for any country, and bringing this team to Tajikistan demonstrates how international cooperation can make a difference in protecting people from this disease,” said Dr Bahtygul Karriyeva, ad interim Head of the WHO Country Office in Tajikistan.
The centre, which houses about 800 people, was under quarantine until the beginning of May.
In order to reach as many citizens as possible and thus combat disinformation in a targeted manner, information is available in several languages as well as in simple language and sign language.
This is the objective of the guidelines agreed between the Federal Government and the Länder.
Graduating from the College of Medicine in Cahul in 1988 and from the department of sanitary management in “Nicolae Testemițanu” State University of Medicine and Pharmacy in 2006, Viorica has worked for over 30 years in the children’s hospital.
COVID-19 messages are reaching new audiences in Turkey as goodwill ambassadors from United Nations agencies in the country offer to share information from WHO with their followers.
In addition to being a threat to human health, unsafe food also plays a fundamental role in the socioeconomic development of countries as it affects international trade and market opportunities.
Violence of any kind and at any time, against women, men, children or older populations, must not be tolerated.
This includes healthcare workers and nursing staff, provided that they have no symptoms of COVID-19 infection.
The planned coronavirus warning app will hopefully soon further improve contact tracing.
Earlier, Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission issued a statement welcoming the constructive proposal made by France and Germany.
Efforts to build up intensive care bed capacities are continuing. On 22 April, the number of available intensive care beds reported was just under 33,500, which is 20 percent higher than the number reported in the hospital statistics.
Before March 2020, excess all-cause mortality, as reported by EuroMOMO in a network of 24 countries, was slightly lower than the previous 2 influenza seasons.
My day often ends quite late in the evening.
Once again, the mental health and psychosocial support services and other services that are relevant to this population must remain available at this time.
These groups, both of whom are already at risk of exclusion, are being put in an increasingly vulnerable situation. “The dedicated, compassionate people working in long-term care systems, who are so often overstretched, underpaid and unprotected, are the unsung heroes of this pandemic,” notes Dr Kluge.
Understanding public levels of trust, people’s perceptions of risk, and the barriers they may face in following recommended actions is critical to the effectiveness and success of pandemic response measures.
Unfortunately, every country in the Region is already all too familiar with the scourge of interpersonal violence.
This is even more imperative during a global health emergency, when an effective response demands the inclusion of all.
Social media has revolutionized the way consumers obtain food safety information and provided new opportunities for consumers to share their views on food safety issues.
Travellers who do not wish to accept the voucher will receive the immediate reimbursement to which they are entitled.
I hope our profession will receive the recognition it deserves someday.”
For example, we have found out that the crisis has negative psychological effects, especially among younger people.
In order to ensure that these groups are particularly well protected, the Federation and the Länder have agreed, among other things, to issue regulations restricting visits to nursing homes.
At the start of the COVID-19 epidemic in Uzbekistan, sourcing and installing new equipment to carry out testing in laboratories proved to be difficult.
“WHO/Europe stands ready to continue to support countries and work alongside its partners to sustain the preparedness and response efforts.”
We cannot discount the possibility that the novel virus will spread to Germany and within Germany in the coming weeks and months.
To date, 130 patients from France, 44 patients from Italy and 24 from the Netherlands have been brought to Germany, some via medical airlifts carried out by the Luftwaffe.
The COVID-19 pandemic is having a far-reaching financial impact on a large number of citizens.
We have prepared documents for COVID-19 response, but as with many other countries, we face challenges with, for instance, access to personal protective equipment.
The Federal Government is providing up to 50 billion euros in the form of emergency assistance to support microenterprises and self-employed people.
As individuals, practising good hygiene and prevention measures as well as applying measures of social distancing, including avoiding crowded places, continue to be very important.
There are issues that crop up time after time when I talk to media.
I can say from my own experience that it hasn’t been easy to adjust.
Similar events will be held across the Region on a range of topics, such as diabetes and cancer care, to support countries and systems in meeting shared challenges in a time of COVID-19.
The budget planning of member states will also be affected.
To boost companies’ liquidity, the regulations on the payment of taxes and social security contributions have been amended.
The chatbot is now available for national authorities and public health institutions for tailored use in countries, including in local languages.
In key sectors the Federal Government has permitted exemptions from the Working Hours Act under certain strict conditions.
Rehabilitation therapists have received extended infection control training for COVID-19 and are updating themselves with the latest evidence-based clinical practice.
Cases have now been reported in 28 African countries, primarily imported from Europe.
Furthermore, up to 9% of households were pushed into poverty – or further impoverished – as a result of having to pay out-of-pocket for health care.
As of yesterday, Italy reported 6,200 infected health care workers.
They will be meeting with high-level officials, public health counterparts and health professionals, working together to assess the risks and understand the situation on the ground, and help develop the response mechanisms, including laboratory capacity.
This is a call to action for all countries to protect their people and the world, and achieving global solidarity is crucial.
The current challenges posed by the COVID-19 outbreak also underscore the importance of the International Health Regulations (IHR).
Based on case information reported to WHO, 94% of all COVID-19 deaths were in persons aged 60 years and above, and 59% of all those who died were men.
In determining the type and extent of care at home, personal assessments have been replaced by assessments based on file records and mandatory consultations temporarily suspended without this having a negative impact on the entitlement to nursing care allowances.
Measures in Wuhan, for example, were very different than those implemented in other places such as Shanghai or Chengdu.
Children are very perceptive and will model how to respond from their carers.
BP Panwar, T4D Business Analyst, UNICEF ECARO, +41 79 453 5713, bppanwar@unicef.org
Those dispensing medicines to the general public should know what steps to take if they suspect or see signs of COVID-19.
“To address the health risks caused by COVID-19, I became part of a contact-tracing team, helping patients recall everyone whom they had been in close contact with during the time they were infectious,” explains Ahmed. “I also assisted as a translator when we were interviewing Arabic-speaking patients.
However, international experience shows that these figures can be lowered if comprehensive policies are implemented at the right time.
In many homes, women and children are relying on calls, emails and text messages to helplines and other community support mechanisms as their only refuge.
The meeting follows the announcement yesterday by Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO’s Director-General, that COVID-19 can be characterized as a pandemic.
Dr Kluge also pointed out that WHO has been coordinating closely not only with the European Union, but also the Council of Newly Independent States and the Eurasian Economic Union on COVID-19.
A: WHO has been working closely with the Government of China, providing technical advice to help the government plan and respond since the start of the year.
We use it in operating rooms, for resuscitation, intensive care units and maternity departments.
At WHO we are concerned that countries will respond to this crisis in the same way they did to the recession 10 years ago.
“Evidence across the Region and globally shows that those living with NCDs are particularly vulnerable,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe and senior author of the study. “The full extent of this may be unknown, due to the many cases of NCDs that go undiagnosed,” he added.
Further details are available below.
The WHO Rapid Response Team (RRT) has recommended maintaining a strong focus on containment measures across the country, combined with a combination of strategies in areas with wider virus transmission to prevent disease and protect lives.
Instead of 6300 euros to date, 44,590 euros can be earned in addition without any deductions to pension payments.
Every country must equip their health care centres to manage an influx of patients and protect health care workers from exposure.
Laboratories identified so far include:
On this issue, Dr Kluge made a direct appeal for governments to reconsider the steps they have taken to close borders and impose import/export restrictions that are inhibiting the flow of supplies and equipment, including personal protective equipment for frontline health workers.
WHO will continue its support to Azerbaijan through its country and regional offices and by engaging international experts and partners in the country.
The Eurogroup has agreed on a protection programme worth 500 billion euros – for companies, employees and states.
The Council welcomed the initiative proposed by Germany and France to foster economic recovery in Europe following the coronavirus epidemic.
We are concerned that countries may have seen interruptions in routine immunization services, including among vulnerable groups, and the interruption of measles outbreak response activities.
As to the question of when will the vaccine will be available? Now we don’t have a timeline for developing a vaccine.
WHO/Europe has published a new guide on how to eat healthily during the COVID-19 self-quarantine.
The ability of COVID-19 to spread quickly cannot be underestimated.
In many places, reduced economic and transport activities brought about by measures to reduce the spreading of the pandemic have resulted in the short term in cleaner air, reduced carbon emissions and less noise.
Despite this large uptake, Ms Coutinho Rehse insists that discussions with individual attendees are still possible through their question-and-answer sessions. “There is a need to strengthen the ability of health workers to turn their knowledge into skills, especially in relation to the easing of COVID-19 measures.
More countries are about to embark on regular surveys with WHO support, including Azerbaijan, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Ukraine; and as these countries move towards transition and adjusting pandemic measures, the insights gained will be highly valuable in informing decisions and ensuring these measures are appropriate.
The question is whether we will take into account the biggest lesson so far, namely to work between waves to strengthen readiness and surge for worst case scenarios.
Thanks to great solidarity and enormous efforts, we have managed to slow the spread of the outbreak, she declared in the German Bundestag.
On 24 January, France has officially notified to the WHO Regional Office for Europe of 3 confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV.
In the coming days, we will be releasing an overview of key actions now and in the future to prevent and respond to this surge in violence against children, women, men and older people.
If the voucher is not redeemed by the end of 2021, the value of the original price paid must be paid immediately to the customer.
Remember, that we are no better off today than we were at the beginning of the year, we still do not have a vaccine nor treatment for COVID-19.
“Emergency medical teams and rapid response mobile laboratories will support scaling up national COVID-19 response capacities, including in the most remote areas of the country,” said Dr Oleg Storozhenko, Partnerships Officer at WHO/Europe. “They will help to increase testing, improve contact tracing and isolation measures, support triage and referral systems, and optimize patient care.”
I therefore take this opportunity to also commend all the ministries of health in this Region for heeding our call and doing everything possible to prioritize routine immunization as part of essential health services during this pandemic.
The midwives also maintain a direct line of communication with all expecting women over mobile phones, which allows them to maintain a one-to-one relationship despite physical barriers.
They visited hospitals, discussed patient care and infection prevention and control measures with health care workers, reviewed the epidemiological map of Italy, and supported the development of a joint risk communication strategy.
This range is consistent with past years.
Germany and France have made a proposal for Europe’s economic recovery.
More than 120 people were infected.
When you follow the recommendations not only at work but everywhere, you will be safe.
Tax prepayments can be reduced, tax payments deferred without interest and enforcement measures suspended.
WHO has also set up a series of webinars on clinical management and infection prevention and control measures in the context of COVID-19, and on practical peer-to-peer support to deliver services for non-COVID-19 patients with NCDs.
How can we ensure that the new start after the crisis is environmentally sound?
Most of these are experiencing localized clusters of cases, though sometimes these clusters can be large.
Among them, the Economic and Social Research Institute in Ireland, that found that adherence to measures was most likely when there is clear and frequent communication, strong group identity, and social disapproval for those who don’t comply.
And we observe that South Africa, which has one of the most well-developed health systems in the Region, both in the public and private sector, already acknowledges that it will be challenging to deal with the number of cases that are projected to occur with the rapid geographic spread of COVID-19.
Prioritizing immunization is one of my four flagship areas and central to WHO’s vision for health in the new European Programme of Work,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
Meeting with representatives from both Governments as well as UN counterparts and civil society representatives during the five-day visit, he discussed a range of issues and visited polyclinics providing primary health care and treating patients with tuberculosis (TB).
This included the need to ensure global coordination so that vital goods are not stuck at borders, while also making resources available to one another, particularly medical devices and personal protective equipment (PPE).
Shocks are dynamic in nature: one shock can cause a legacy of health system weakness or lead to another shock.
The health and/or economic consequences of this pandemic are affecting everyone.
Azerbaijan has received laboratory testing kits from WHO.
“The next priority was making sure that health-care professionals had the necessary protective gear – the right masks, gloves and goggles.
Now as people return to work, schools and sports clubs, it is essential that the new rules be respected.
WHO, UN Foundation and partners have launched a first-of-its-kind COVID-19 Solidary Response Fund that finances support to the most in need and vulnerable, and supports the WHO Response Plans.
Community pharmacists are key players in COVID-19 response and must stay up-to-date on guidance
This initiative aims to bring together all international research efforts to develop and deploy COVID-19 diagnostics, treatments and a vaccine. Once these are available, they are to be equitably shared.
The new tool is available in English and Russian, and the accompanying survey can be conducted in any language and tailored to country contexts.
The essential role played by health-care workers in advancing towards universal health coverage gains additional importance in the context of a worldwide health emergency such as COVID-19.
Italian authorities are implementing measures to prevent onward transmission that align with the containment strategy currently being implemented globally.
Pupils are involved as peer educators with messages on how to stay healthy and share reflections on the new daily reality of social and physical distancing.
Due to the closure of kindergartens and schools, many families are finding it difficult to balance families and careers.
However, it should also be noted that based on current data, in the majority of cases (4 out of every 5) people experience mild or no symptoms.
Germany is to contribute 525 million euros to the fight against the coronavirus.
With COVID-19, the task is challenging because, in many cases, the disease can manifest itself as a mild respiratory illness and begin gradually.
In a recovery phase, it will also be important for the Chinese population to better understand some of the risk factors that seem to be linked to COVID-19 severity – such as tobacco use and hypertension.
Isolated local outbreaks are a clear indication of how quickly the virus could spread again, however, said the Chancellor, "That is why we must be very cautious and very careful."
Any transition must take account of public health and epidemiological considerations; ensure capacity for dual track health systems to provide regular health services as well as those for COVID-19 are in place; integrate social and behavioural perspectives; and offer social and economic support to reduce the devastating effects of COVID-19 on individuals, families and communities.
In public, keep a minimum of 1.5 metres away from the nearest person.
“I began my career at the Central District Hospital when I was 19 and chose anaesthesiology because I preferred having a hands-on approach.
In order to protect children from domestic violence the Federal Government has expanded counselling services targeting parents or the children themselves.
WHO Regional Director for the Western Pacific, Dr Takeshi Kasai,
Angela Merkel announced that Germany will work for the complete realisation of the debt moratorium agreed by the G20 states and for the involvement of private creditors.
The COVID-19 pandemic is straining health systems worldwide.
Countries should prepare to respond to different public health scenarios, recognizing that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to managing cases and outbreaks of COVID-19.
Unemployment benefits will be temporarily available to freelancers and self-employed people in Finland.
Dr Hans Kluge made Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan his first official visit as the new WHO Regional Director for Europe.
This plan outlines the activities and resources needed by international health organizations globally, including WHO, to implement priority public health measures in support of countries to prepare for and respond to COVID-19 until April 2020.
Nurse Viorica Purice calls for solidarity in the fight against COVID-19
A new WHO survey looks at the extent of the disruption of services for the prevention and treatment of noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer and chronic respiratory diseases during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Some regions are taking additional steps to raise awareness among the public.
In late 2019, WHO installed an oxygen generator at the hospital to make sure there was no disruption of life-saving care for patients.
But it should not be this way.
And I thank our tireless health-care professionals, dedicated to leaving no one behind in providing health care and delivering vaccination services.
Many countries identified suspected cases that were later shown to be negative for the virus.
This guidance presents the latest evidence about the signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and the prevention and management measures that should be implemented in suspect, probable and confirmed cases of infection, considering a prison’s specificities.
Tragically over 124,000 people have now lost their lives to this virus.
Statement – We can beat COVID-19 virus through solidarity
The authorities also reviewed lines of communication to determine how to coordinate across ministries, partners, civil society and various levels of government.
Through solidarity, perseverance and patience, we will defeat this virus together.
Dr O’Connor commended the government for repurposing private and public sector capacity to locally produce protective equipment for health-care workers. “This is very much needed in countries across the European Region and the globe, and the attention Belarus is placing on this critical issue is indeed remarkable,” he observed. “With each country mission conducted, we in WHO are learning how to better respond to COVID-19, and this mission will also help us to assist other countries.”
We always discuss this topic among colleagues and friends, and we support one another by sharing the challenges we face and reminding ourselves of the public health recommendations we have to follow.”
I am happy to be joined by our Chair of the European Technical Advisory Group of Experts Dr Adam Finn today, on this panel.
As part of its public health response to COVID-19, WHO has worked with partners to develop a factsheet which addresses myths and provides guidance during the pandemic: “Alcohol and COVID-19: what you need to know”.
But the vulnerable also include our healthcare workers, who are not only the most exposed to the virus, but the most essential part of the response.
Let me start with a brief overview of the current COVID-19 situation across the WHO European Region.
The full impact of these measures will only be felt once the contact restrictions have gradually been lifted.
To achieve this, it has introduced a separate lane for goods transport at motorway border crossings, where necessary.
The document also lists the six conditions that must be present for countries to consider easing restrictions and moving to transition – an essential checklist.
In particular they looked at the Franco-German initiative for a 500-billion-euro economic recovery fund for Europe.
Businesses and jobseekers can also match themselves up with one another via www.daslandhilft.de, a service which has been launched by the Federation in cooperation with the agricultural sector.
Thank you. Global solidarity across countries and continents needed to fight COVID-19
This is at the core of our mandate.
These funds will make possible global relief measures in countries already facing a humanitarian crisis.
And yet we must also look to each other for solutions and understanding of what measures work, and what can be done.
Iliana Colonna: enabling positive birth experiences in the time of COVID-19
The coordinated efforts of the GOARN experts complement the ongoing work of the emergency medical team (EMT) in Tajikistan.
Allowing for careful considerations of cultural differences in health-care interventions means recognizing culture as an enabling factor for sustainable development and health-care systems that leave no one behind.
As the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic sweeps across the world, it is causing widespread concern, fear and stress, all of which are natural and normal reactions to the changing and uncertain situation that everyone finds themselves in.
WHO recently announced a closer collaboration with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
The federal and state governments have agreed on a contingency programme to ensure better e-learning.
She underlined the fact that the spread of the virus has been slowed as far as possible.
Chinese authorities have made a preliminary determination of a new coronavirus, identified in a hospitalized person with pneumonia in Wuhan.
Germany is a federal country, and there will always be regional differences, stressed the Chancellor on Thursday following her telephone conference with the state premiers.
Every single country must assess their own situation and context, including virus spread, measures in place and social acceptability, and adopt the most appropriate interventions.
My name is Gulbara Dadyvaeva.
At the briefing, Dr Kluge was joined by colleagues from WHO/Europe and WHO headquarters, as well as by Dr Søren Brostrøm, Director General of the Danish Health Authority and Chair of the Standing Committee of the Regional Committee for Europe.
“At the beginning of the quarantine, I travelled the province to help prepare care and infection control at hospitals.
The authors of the brief reviewed the literature on strategies for strengthening health system resilience and for responding to system shocks, as well as emerging evidence from national responses to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Delegates pointed out that the evaluation should take place at the earliest appropriate moment, while avoiding diverting attention away from addressing the crisis.
The Chancellor stated that she is very glad that it has proved possible to keep the numbers down even after the first restrictions were lifted.
All measures must be in line with the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement on climate change, said Angela Merkel.
WHO/Europe is stepping up efforts for the people of Europe with its leadership and partners.
As part of the operation, WHO will mobilize medical and laboratory specialists from Germany, the Russian Federation and the united Kingdom, who will be deployed to Tajikistan during the coming weeks, upon request from the Tajik government.
Additional earnings from essential occupations and interruptions to training or education caused by the pandemic will not have an adverse effect on recipients of grants from the German Government.
“Nurses are at high risk of being infected, as we spend most of our time in close contact with patients.
Controlling the spread of infection in these settings is essential for preventing large outbreaks of COVID-19.
I worked several years in a surgical department, spent more than 10 years as a teacher and manager of the nursing school I myself had once graduated from, and then worked as director of nursing services at the largest hospital in the country.
Repurposing of staff may mean that some outpatient services are unable to run.
Making effective policies on migration and health means examining how culture mediates both caregiving and care receiving in cross-cultural and multicultural contexts.
In addition, the health workforce needs to be offered the opportunity to rest and recuperate.
To facilitate this coordination, a United Nations Crisis Management Team was established on 11 February at the global level.
Whatever the stage, all countries have been tremendously engaged and committed to preparing for and responding to COVID-19, and if you allow me, I would like to share a few reflections from this part of the world:
What I can say for sure is that all WHO European Member States have been making serious efforts to use scientific evidence and professional guidance to address the very real challenges of this situation.
Last week, we issued essential guidance for countries considering and planning COVID-19 transition.
Greenland has limited the sale of alcohol to make the home environment safer for children.
Joining Dr Kluge on a panel were experts from WHO/Europe’s emergencies team, as well as Dr David Nabarro, a Special Envoy appointed by the WHO Director-General to provide strategic advice and high-level political advocacy on COVID-19.
Challenges and circumstances vary from country to country and there is no one-size-fits-all approach.
All participants agreed, she added, that the hygiene regulations must be observed everywhere.
The resolution made a strong plea for the continued funding of health systems to ensure uninterrupted and safe health services for patients with conditions other than COVID-19.
It was developed in collaboration with the University of Erfurt, Germany, which is currently collecting data every week and sharing results with German authorities coordinating the pandemic response.
“Those who do not feel well should stay home and contact their health-care providers.
He explained that many of those who enter intensive care stay there for approximately 3 weeks and require long periods of rehabilitation following their illness.
We have additional responsibilities and tasks now, including frequently airing the premises and cleaning the tables and stock with alcohol-based wipes.
The large-scale COVID-19 response operation in Tajikistan expanded as a new team of experts landed in Dushanbe on 13 June 2020, deployed through the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN), the WHO-coordinated expert network for emergencies.
During the coming weeks, the task force is set to focus on economic and socioeconomic recovery, the recovery of health systems and safe easing of restrictions.
As a globally interconnected country and as an important EU member state, Germany is thus facing the greatest challenge since the end of the Second World War.
The Minister of State for Culture and the Media and the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs of the federal states have been asked to draw up a strategy for theatres, opera houses, concert venues and cinemas.
The tax-free allowance will be doubled for single parents.
But with solidarity we can prevent violence from blighting the lives of generations.
Viorica is currently staying at a medical facility, where she was admitted after having been infected with COVID-19 by a mother who had recently given birth and whose baby she was caring for during a night shift.
The most important contribution to overcoming the pandemic is being made by members of the public, who are helping to contain the spread of the virus with their level-headed behaviour.
While we cannot predict the virus’ behavior, we can decide how good we are in stopping it.
Travellers without a valid reason for entering Germany are refused entry at internal borders, airports and seaports.
In his opening statement, Dr Kluge gave key figures related to the development of COVID-19 in the population of older people. “Older adults are at a significantly increased risk of severe disease following infection from COVID-19.
The nurses at the centre have a good working relationship with other health-care workers, and their professional opinions and assessments are highly valued.“My regular responsibilities also include certifying nurses and paramedics, consulting with nurses, discussing prescriptions for treatment and developing projects for the province.
To this end they propose an "unprecedented one-off effort" as Chancellor Angela Merkel said at a joint press conference with President Emmanuel Macron.
"It is an ambitious programme," declared Angela Merkel.
Stepping up the use of hydrogen power and better promoting electric vehicles are also part of the package.
Laura Lupi, COVID-19 nurse: together, we can beat this virus
Not only will the chatbot provide accurate and targeted health advice for the public, it will also target information to the specific needs of health-care workers, faith-based organizations, employers, and the travel and tourism sectors in the countries.
Members of the diplomatic corps in Denmark,
Strong Europe in everybody’s best interests
We look to contain and isolate the virus and not people, and certainly not countries.
The countries most affected by the pandemic are among them.”
The country will also be receiving personal protective equipment (PPE) for frontline health-care workers caring for patients with suspected and confirmed COVID-19, and laboratory staff who are testing swabs of suspected cases.
Subjects which have resonated include the impact of COVID-19 on female health-care staff, as well as on the general public’s mental health.
“I come from a long line of health-care workers.
Here is an overview.
So about 8 days ago we only had 5 African countries with cases.
To give businesses easier access to low-interest loans and safeguard their liquidity, the Federal Government has simplified and speeded up the application procedure for KfW loans.
The resolution calls for united, intensified efforts – strengthening multilateral cooperation in response to the pandemic.
He assured those in the European Region of continuing support from the Western Pacific Region, and thanked the European Region in turn for its support.
The package is geared to climate change mitigation and to promoting the technologies that will be important in future, alongside social-policy components.
Statement – Every country needs to take boldest actions to stop COVID-19
Solidarity means that we must strictly abide by the regulations and procedures being put in place by health authorities in our countries.
2019–2020 influenza season: repurposing surveillance systems for COVID-19
So my third message is this: Recovery must lead to a different economy.
At its peak in February, China was reporting 3800 new cases of COVID-19 in a single day.
Novel coronavirus outbreak in China – What does it mean for Europe?
For optimal health, it is also important to remain physically active.
The easing of restrictions in certain countries will also have to be staggered over a period of time.
In closing, Dr Kluge summed up his 3 key messages underscoring that combating COVID-19 is a collective responsibility:
The Standing Committee also recalls that in this current situation, the principle of leaving no-one behind through the solidarity with all our populations, including migrants and refugees, is of essence now more than ever.
Companies with up to five employees will receive a one-off payment of up to 9000 euros to cover their ongoing material and financial expenses, for example payment of rent, hire costs or leasing instalments.
“I’m so scared” is a cry for help heard in ever-increasing numbers by the brave volunteers who operate the many violence prevention helplines and services across the WHO European Region since COVID-19 response measures commenced.
They explained that, while more money is needed for health, there is also a need for more health for the money invested.
Nurses are proving their reliability and that they can take on additional responsibilities.
The Federal Government has launched a comprehensive package of measures in order to avoid financial bottlenecks.
The new model centres on meeting the health needs of families and communities.
This process can take weeks or even months.
While refugees and migrants may live in conditions that make them particularly vulnerable to COVID-19, they are also part of a united response.
Before that, we had to use oxygen concentrators, which were bulky and less reliable, because they depend on grid power.
Stretching and strengthening exercises are needed to prevent patients from acquiring joint stiffness and muscle weakness which would delay their recovery and discharge home.
Package of measures approved
Agricultural enterprises will therefore benefit from the extension of the period in which marginal employment can be undertaken without the obligation to pay social security contributions from 70 to 115 days, until 31 October 2020.
As a child, I was fascinated by nurses’ work and equipment in the medical centre of my home village – the glass syringes and the smell of antiseptics.”
"The initial infection in North Rhine-Westphalia has not, however, been identified."
WHO/UNICEF joint statement – Maintaining routine immunization services vital during the COVID-19 pandemic
Both federal and state government urgently recommend that people wear cloth masks.
The “Violence against Women” helpline was set up to protect women from violence. Emergency plans are enabling it to keep operating with all functions and modes of access during the pandemic.
In the pharmacy, we displayed posters and infographics from WHO advising the public to clean their hands regularly and thoroughly with hand sanitizer or soap and water.
A larger percentage of hospital capacities is to be released again for scheduled surgery.
This was echoed by Dr Tedros in his address, who also explained that there is currently a shortfall of 6 million nurses who will be needed to sustain universal health coverage.
Press release
With this array of factors, transitioning from lockdown presents different challenges to each country.
For the latest situation report see the WHO website.
In addition to high-level meetings, the visit was an opportunity to speak with health workers and partner agencies about their work on the ground in Serbia.
However, since mid-March, excess mortality has increased to the highest levels seen since the network began over 10 years ago, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
A partnership with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) saw close to 35 000 people tune in to watch one of Turkey’s most famous actresses, Tuba Büyüküstün, talking to WHO Public Health Officer, Dr Bahadir Sucakli, about the implications of COVID-19.
I feel that my staff were well-prepared with information about how to recognize the signs and symptoms of COVID-19.
The country has taken several steps to prepare for the very different health risk posed by potential importation of the COVID-19 virus.
The limit has hitherto been 30 per cent of the workforce.
The rapidly evolving outbreak requires all hospitals to be able to adapt to a swift increase in demands while continuing to ensure safe environments for health workers.
On 9 April 2020, the finance ministers of the euro area agreed to make available more than 500 billion euros in financial support to be used to help member states whose economies have been hit particularly hard by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The team also worked with the national authorities to further develop the COVID-19 response roadmap.
So, to my first message today – We must remain vigilant.
Embracing cultural diversity unlocks key resources for more inclusive health systems
The novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak in China is a sign that every country needs to be ready to timely detect and manage outbreaks of any type.
WHO has called on countries to ensure that immunization is maintained wherever possible and surveillance for VPDs remains undisrupted during the ongoing pandemic.
Access to vaccines for all has transformed our societies, but it is a public good that must be maintained to be effective, even in difficult times.
The 4 experts in public health, epidemiology and laboratory services will work closely with their peers in Tajikistan to strengthen disease surveillance and laboratory systems as part of the COVID-19 response operation, under the coordination of the newly established Public Health Emergency Operations Centre.
The criteria for deferring social security contributions have been relaxed until 30 April 2020.
The current COVID-19 situation and health system capacities vary widely across the European Region, and this situation is rapidly evolving.
That is why this regional meeting with the state premiers of the eastern federal states discussed what has been achieved and what is the status of efforts to address the COVID-19 pandemic.
This is the point at which our actions and individual behaviour determines which path we follow, one that sees us head towards a new normal, or one that sends us back to restrictions on our movement and social interactions.
We separated COVID-19 infected women and those who had tested negative.
Over the past 14 days cumulative cases in the European Region have increased 15% and the Region still accounts for 38% of cases and 50% of deaths globally.
There is no mentally logging off from work, as the fear of infecting others is a constant companion.
In anticipation of the increased demand for therapy services, due to the growing numbers of COVID-19 patients needing therapy input, actions have been taken to increase capacity by cancelling non-essential work and emphasizing multi-disciplinary teamwork and open, frequent communication between teams and team leaders.
It is in Germany’s own interest for Europe to emerge strong from this test.
The advice includes temporary recommendations for China, other countries and the global community.
The first round of kits was distributed in February, and a second round is currently being shipped.
Reiterating Dr Kluge’s call, Dr Kasai underlined that this is a time for international cooperation and solidarity.
Each and every one of us is part of a community.
These efforts are very welcome, and I also commend the determination of parents and caregivers to keep their children safe.
This amounts to USD 252 million out of the total USD 584 million that has been pledged or received by WHO as part of the global Strategic preparedness and response plan appeals - an impressive 43% of global pledges and support to WHO to date.
This is not entirely unexpected given the volume of travel between Wuhan and other countries.
The exercises we have shared in this guide are easy to do and require no special equipment.
Firstly, we can beat the virus through solidarity:
In 2016, Bulgaria adopted the Equality between Women and Men Act and has also amended its criminal code to include stalking, psychological violence and some elements of coercive control.
Globalization of the food chain has accelerated, and international trade in food and agricultural products is higher than ever before.
Thank you.
“It felt like the youth had a lot of doubts and questions about COVID-19.
The general contact restrictions are to remain in place.
“Those first 20 minutes of donning our protective gear are imperative to avoid getting infected.
Every day, we have training sessions, both for health workers and local residents, on how to behave if the pandemic starts spreading here as well.
All countries are vulnerable, regardless of income levels or the strength of their health care systems.
This ensures that these products are delivered quickly to where they are most urgently needed, i.e. for use by medical and nursing staff.
To respond to this unintended outcome of the lockdowns and to protect those subjected to violence, countries are putting in place solutions to offer safety.
To members of the media: Yours is a critical role.
On my first point:
Responding to a disease outbreak requires a collective effort and relies on the cooperation of everyone in respecting measures designed to slow the spread of infection within the community.
"We now rate the risk to the population in Germany as moderate," said the President of the Robert Koch Institute.
I thank you for your attention, your commitment, and all your efforts.
Expert networks scale up COVID-19 testing, tracing and treating in Tajikistan
In the United Kingdom, 14 women and 2 children were murdered in the first 3 weeks of COVID-19 lockdowns, the highest figures in 11 years.
A story from Italy illustrates how countries have been working to maintain services.
In order to safeguard the incomes of families also in times of crisis, receiving child supplement payments will temporarily be made easier for families with low incomes.
The first cases of 2019-nCoV have been reported in the European Region.
The high level of acceptance of the measures put in place is a vote of confidence for political decision-makers, obliging them to deal with the crisis in a measured yet effective manner.
The prerequisite for this is that tenants can credibly demonstrate that they cannot make the payment due to the crisis.
This has never happened before.
WHO/Europe hosts coronavirus briefing for ambassadors
Their training is updated every day, based on any changes that may have occurred in the affected areas or with methodologies, specific recommendations and national regulations.
This year in particular, it is recommended that even existing heat–health action plans be reviewed to take into consideration measures in place to reduce and prevent COVID-19 transmission.
“I’m also very grateful for the WHO medical and technical guidance, especially on infection prevention and control for us health-care workers: knowledge in times of health emergencies like COVID-19 is a powerful instrument,” said Viorica.
“It has been difficult for us nurses to get the recognition we deserve and to be acknowledged as a profession with an independent scope of practice.
In an interview with WHO/Europe, the WHO Representative to China, Dr Gauden Galea, spoke about the next phase of China’s response to the pandemic and what lessons other countries should draw from its experience.
The Federal Government is working intensively to test the feasibility and implementation of a contact tracing app for Germany.
We have delivered virtual guidance on Infection Prevention and Control and Clinical Management for COVID-19 patients to clinicians from 30 countries, and media training for journalists across the Region.
Daily testing capacities rose from approx. 31,000 to around 136,000 COVID‐19 tests in the period from 9 March to 20 April.
Let me turn now to the deeply concerning picture that has been emerging of COVID-19 in long-term care facilities in the European Region and globally in recent weeks.
63% of global mortality is from this Region.
COVID-19: WHO coordinates large-scale response operation in Tajikistan
Since the impacts of the coronavirus vary from state to state within Europe, cohesion within the Union is in jeopardy.
If an outbreak occurs regionally over a larger area and the chains of infection are unclear, then rigorous general restrictions will have to be reintroduced on a regional basis, such as those in place prior to 20 April.
Around 70–80% of cases pass under the radar, according to the Center for the Study of Democracy estimates for 2015.
While everyone wishes the return of economic activity, it’s important to be clear that this will be a gradual process, requiring strict monitoring and a possible reintroduction of measures should there be a new increase in cases.”
In order to protect innovative potential and jobs, the Federal Government is also assisting start-ups.
I guarantee that your contributions are being used efficiently and effectively.
In particular, the German government is thus supporting humanitarian assistance in the health sector and in the field of water supply and sanitation.
UNICEF promotes the rights and well-being of every child, in everything we do.
On 31 December 2019, the WHO China Country Office was informed of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause detected in the city of Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
The COVID-19 Health System Response Monitor (HSRM) is a new online platform being launched today to provide countries and stakeholders in the WHO European Region with evidence of how national health systems are responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
We also have a demographic that we believe needs particular consideration.
The pandemic is an international problem and this collaboration is a great example of the international effort that will be required to beat this disease.”
Countries were also encouraged to take note of the best practice highlighted by WHO with regards to identifying, testing and tracing the contacts of confirmed cases of COVID-19 to help limit transmission.
Therefore, it is important that pharmacists stay up to date and well informed about the latest advice, the guidelines say.
“It’s not just any other meeting, it’s an exercise that takes the place of a field visit to the country to provide in-depth technical advice so you need to make sure both sides have good internet access as well as proper back-up support with simultaneous interpreters and a dedicated amount of time,” notes Partnerships Officer at WHO/Europe, Dr Oleg Storozhenko.
This highlights the need for focusing on the unintended effects of the COVID-19 response – ensuring that health systems do not forget to pay attention to prevention and control of NCDs during this pandemic.
In particular, the specialists deployed under GOARN will help improve the surveillance system at national and regional levels by working closely with their colleagues at the Tajik sanitary-epidemiological service,” said Dr Bahtygul Karriyeva, ad interim Head of the WHO Country Office in Tajikistan.
This is indeed an unprecedented time for all of us, especially for children who face an enormous disruption to their lives.
With Federal Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, he gave an update on the situation.
COVID-19 data will continue to be summarized and shared by WHO/Europe and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC).
Italy, which has the highest number of cases in the Region, has just seen a slightly lower rate of increase, though it is still too early to say that the pandemic is peaking in that country.
The situation in the Eastern part of the Region remains a concern.
The G20 supports the WHO and its global pandemic plan, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) vaccine initiative and GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, as well as the crisis mechanisms of the IMF and the World Bank – in view of the particular challenges faced by developing countries, above all in Africa.
Work must continue on realising the Paris Agreement
To raise funds for this emergency, WHO together with partners has launched the Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan that goes beyond the boundaries of the health sector.
The good news is that we have learned a lot from the first wave.
Since we last broadcast over a week ago, the number cases and deaths of COVID-19 in our Region have tripled.
The SCRC usually meets before the beginning of the World Health Assembly, and this year endorsed the latest version of the European Programme of Work (EPW) “United Action for Better Health”.
This year, WHO shines a spotlight in particular on the work of nurses and midwives across the WHO European Region as the campaign theme “Save lives: clean your hands”, is aligned with the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife 2020.
"Let us reopen public and economic life step by step, and closely monitor the development of the pandemic as we do so," said Chancellor Angela Merkel.
97% of all deaths were among those with at least one underlying condition, according to information available, with cardiovascular disease the leading comorbidity.
Therefore, their status is the same as that of any other doctors working in public hospitals and medical centres.
A Hospital Readiness Checklist developed by WHO/Europe is helping hospital managers and emergency planners ensure a rapid and effective response to the COVID-19 outbreak.
Natural settings also support active recreation and provide a place to relax and leave daily stress behind for a while.
In response to the restrictions, countries are putting in place a range of mitigation measures by adapting service delivery platforms.
At the joint press conference Federal Interior Minister Horst Seehofer outlined the main responsibilities of the new crisis unit, in order to ensure the population have maximum protection
Containing the pandemic and making social life possible
Increasing testing capacities gives us a detailed picture of the course of the pandemic and thus forms the basis for the Federal Government’s evaluation of scenarios for easing existing measures.
We must mobilize the will from politicians and people alike to create a better society which is fair and safe for everyone.
We were familiar with demanding work, but this added an unfamiliar psychologically challenging element to it.
More than 500 doctors, nurses and midwives received the WHO certificate that marks Global Hand Hygiene Day and International Day of the Midwife, celebrated on 5 May each year.
The WHO European Region has reported over 220,000 cases, and 11,987 deaths associated with COVID-19.
Maintaining social connections is also important.
The schools are also to be better equipped to enable them to provide professional online teaching.Since, for the foreseeable future, schooling is going to involve a mix of classroom teaching and e-learning at home, explained Federal Education Minister Anja Karliczek, "Ideally every student must have a digital device at their disposal at home."
Europe together with North America is now the epicentre of the pandemic”.
Caution is the cardinal rule
We would like to learn from the experience of countries in Asia, such as China, in terms of active case-finding.
Looking to the future, transitioning to a new normal, we have a clear investment case for setting up integrated, person-centred long-term care systems in each country.
Countries must learn from each other so that the world can develop the widest possible range of measures to fight this virus in different contexts.
These have been further strengthened by the presence of a medical team on the ground able to share best practices between Poland, Italy and Kyrgyzstan.
“With the disruptive effects of COVID-19 – including social distancing – currently dominating our daily lives, it is important that we check on each other, call and video-chat, and are mindful of and sensitive to the unique mental health needs of those we care for.
Team leader, Dr Michał Madeyski, emphasized the practical hands-on nature of their task to advise and support health-care workers in Kyrgyzstan.
After the meeting of what has become known as the Corona Cabinet, Chancellor Angela Merkel gave an update of the situation on Thursday afternoon.
The programme meets a crucial need as nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) have registered an increase in violence against women and children since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Today, it is three months since WHO’s Director-General declared a public health emergency of international concern over the outbreak of novel coronavirus.
Good morning.
“Despite 40 years of experience in various health-care roles, nothing could have truly prepared me for today’s COVID-19 emergency,” says Silvia Mambelli, director of nursing and technical services at the local health authority of the Emilia Romagna region in Italy.
To help countries in the WHO European Region navigate these challenges, WHO/Europe has issued technical guidance to:
The new crisis unit will determine to what extent new measures should apply to cross-border goods traffic.
In view of the diversity of our federal system, it is no surprise that there are always different opinions on what is most important.
This is WHO’s highest level of risk and means that every country has to be absolutely ready; every country should have detection and surveillance in place; and every country should prepare their health workforce and health facilities to see cases.
“Tajikistan has recently reported its first confirmed cases of COVID-19.
Israel is keen on sharing them,” noted Meirav Eilon Shahar, Coordination and Policy Planning Deputy Director General, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
When the vulnerability and frailty of our way of living is appreciated, health is top of the agenda.
Despite the challenges of shipment delays due to regulations and customs, lack of emergency procurement procedures, and global shortages, we have distributed laboratory testing kits to 21 countries, ensuring their ability to detect the virus.
But it is better to move forward gradually step by step and give people prospects than not moving forward at all.
Promoting healthy behaviours and living should become a collective public health priority in China.
In that guidance we emphasized that health systems must have the capacity to operate along a dual track – continuing to deliver regular health services, whilst responding aggressively to COVID-19.
“We know that vulnerability to infectious diseases anywhere is a threat to public health everywhere,” said Ms. Afshan Khan, UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia. “It is critical that routine immunization programmes continue during this crisis, while adequately protecting health workers and individuals receiving vaccinations.
We have worked together to achieve all these things. "They will remain in place and we can draw on them again at any time."
He thanked governments for their contributions, both human and financial, to assist in the global preparedness and response efforts.
During times of isolation and quarantine, older people need safe access to nutritious food, basic supplies, money, medicine to support their physical health, and social care.
We underwent treatment in different facilities and have both recovered – now I want to return to my home and my work,” says Viorica.
Some restrictions to be eased
Health authorities in Italy are implementing measures to prevent onward transmission, including closing of schools and bars and cancelling of sports events and other mass gatherings in the areas affected.
The Federation has concluded the Freight Transport Pact for Germany with the national associations of the haulage, transport and logistics sector.
An emergency mechanism is to ensure that any new spike in infections can be quickly contained."We can say today that the very first phase of the pandemic now lies behind us, but we must always remember that we still have a long way to go as regards dealing with the virus," stressed Chancellor Angela Merkel after her meeting with the premiers of the federal states on Wednesday. The latest infection figures, she said, are "very encouraging".
Some patients may require assistive products, such as walking frames, so they can slowly start completing more functional tasks, such as addressing their personal care needs as they near discharge.
Contributions pledged by more than 40 countries and organisations totalled 7.4 billion euros.
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), a member of GOARN, worked alongside other teams from WHO/GOARN during the Ebola outbreak in west Africa, particularly in Guinea, and also in Haiti and other countries.
Personal visits to prisoners were also suspended until further notice.
“My work has changed profoundly, but so has how I spend the rest of my day.
To minimize the broader impact of the outbreak in societies and economies, we are counting on the support of all partners, including United Nations agencies.
Speaking on COVID-19, Dr Aylward pointed to how explosively the disease can spread in a matter of days, as it did in Spain.
If those surges are not properly managed, then a second wave could happen and could be extremely destructive.
My personal family circumstances mean that I have to return home every day.
“This is also what I wanted to convey during my speech at the first national competition on the development of nursing in Ukraine, where I was awarded third place.
Many of these service providers are threatened by severe financial losses or even insolvency.
WHO and UNICEF will continue to support the efforts of governments to strengthen their immunization programmes, including through strategic planning for the equitable provision of immunization, strengthening vaccine-preventable disease surveillance, and community engagement and education.
Restrictive measures during the COVID-19 pandemic have presented a challenge to maintaining appropriate levels of physical activity and accessing healthy food.
Most non-urgent surgery has been postponed over the last few weeks.
"Not only do we have – and I regard this as crucial – a path towards more opening. We also have a backup plan that says if something happens somewhere, if the infection rate increases somewhere, then we have an emergency mechanism, and in that case only specific regions, and not the whole country, may have to retrace their steps.
Weather services are expecting the coming summer to be warmer and drier than usual in the Region.
WHO calls on health authorities to consider the impact that the current pandemic and response measures have on refugees and migrants.
The Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of the Interior, Building and Community, the Federal Foreign Office, the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy, the Federal Ministry of Defence, the Federal Ministry of Health and the Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure are working together to this end in a procurement task force set up for this purpose.
Reduced hours compensation benefit can also be claimed for temporary workers.
The Protocol’s primary objective is to promote the protection of human health and well-being within a framework of sustainable development, through improving water management, including the protection of water ecosystems, and through preventing, controlling and reducing water-related disease.
Cooperating across teams and countries, WHO is providing the latest guidance and advice to policy-makers.
Alcohol is responsible for 3 million deaths a year worldwide, a third of which occur in the WHO European Region.
The President has placed air pollution on the national security agenda to engage a wide range of sectors – including nongovernmental organizations – that will make a difference to the health of North Macedonia’s citizens.
We must monitor this positive development very closely.
Viorica’s 17-year-old daughter, Andreia, described her experience at the Emilian Cotaga Children’s Hospital: “During the 2 weeks I spent here, I was impressed by the support I received from nurses and doctors – they replaced my family during this time.
This relates to the paucity of capacity for critical care in the majority of African countries in the public sector and also in the private sector.
In 2018 over 500,000 children missed their first dose of measles vaccination.
The Council also adopted emergency measures to protect jobs.
The Federal Government believes that the COVID-19 pandemic can only be overcome by working together.
On 6 February 2020, members of the hub team in Belgrade, Serbia, joined the Serbian Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health on a visit to the international airports in Belgrade and Nis, and to the Clinic for Infectious and Tropical Diseases at the Clinical Centre Serbia.
For crisis response measures to affect public behaviours, they need to be perceived as consistent, competent, fair, objective, empathetic or sincere.
Frontline health workers, including rehabilitation professionals, have been at the forefront of the response and, as for many other frontline workers, there are cases where their work has sadly cost them their lives to COVID-19.
Additionally, WHO donated core equipment for washing and disinfection of medical devices in the sterilization unit.
Vigilance and a continued determination to keep this virus at bay is needed as much during times of peak transmission as it is whilst restrictions are being eased.
Health and social care workers play a critical role in providing long-term care to older people. “Already prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, they worked in challenging conditions, whether in the community or in nursing home facilities … The current situation is a painful reminder not to cut budgets for essential services,” Dr Kluge emphasized.
Its first prescription is to protect and preserve the source of human health: nature.
Some are beginning to ease restrictions while others are choosing to continue strict lockdown measures.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has called on everyone in Germany not to let up in their efforts to stem the spread of the coronavirus over the Easter weekend.
I live with my parents and brother, but I have not spent time with them since starting in this position.
In order to support individuals and families in eating healthily during self-quarantine and isolation, the WHO European Office for Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) has developed a set of general tips, a list of “best food buys”, and a few examples of recipes for inspiration.
Within the Region, 38 of the 53 Member States responded to the survey.
The European Union must take on the leading role. By 2050 Europe is to become the world’s first climate-neutral continent.
Physical distancing and isolation measures, the closure of schools and workplaces, are particularly challenging us - as they affect what we love to do, where we want to be, and who we want to be with.
WHO/Europe’s mission to Armenia is the first to take place virtually and follows approximately 60 COVID-19-related missions over the past two months to countries in the Region.
The five European countries reporting the highest cumulative numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases over the past 14 days are the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Belarus, and Italy.
That’s why real-time monitoring of the epidemic is crucial to react fast.
It will be linked to voting rights on certain issues.
Statement – Transitioning towards ‘a new normal’ must be guided by public health principles, together with economic and societal considerations
Vaccination remains the best intervention to prevent influenza, and renewed efforts to increase uptake for eligible groups next season are warranted to avoid an overload of country health systems due to co-circulation of COVID-19 and influenza.
Countries should place emphasis on:
It also demonstrates that we must work together, united on all fronts and assist national authorities, as this is a global crisis requiring a global, coordinated response that has a positive impact at the country level,” highlighted Dr Nazira Artykova, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
It is a pleasure to speak to you today.
This means that globally, roughly 6 out of every 10 cases, and 7 out of every 10 deaths are reported from our Region.
The agreement is an important element in finding a common European response to the COVID-19 pandemic based on solidarity.
That’s why here at the WHO Regional Office for Europe we have launched a tool to conduct regular surveys, and listen to people’s needs and concerns in these COVID-19 times.
WHO/Europe has surveyed the needs in countries and adapted and disseminated a readiness checklist to ensure the emergency response system is ready.
The objective is to double the number of intensive care beds with ventilators.
WHO is also engaging with social media companies to help disseminate WHO advice and reduce the risk posed by the spread of misinformation.
The country has been conducting weekly surveys since early March.
Prime Minister Mr Oliver Spasovski and Minister of Finance Ms Nina Angelovska both expressed appreciation for Dr Kluge’s emphasis on the link between health and the growth of the national economy.
Thanks to China’s swift release of the full virus sequence, the first protocol for diagnostic testing of samples collected from potentially infected patients and their contacts became available in early January.
However, the outbreak continues.
This indicates that violence against women and children has doubled compared to the months before the pandemic,” says Dr Michail Okoliyski from the WHO Country Office in the capital Sofia.
In the case of Roma women, the rate of non-reporting is as high as 90% due to fear and lack of family or institutional support.
This could save resources at a critical time, whilst helping Uzbekistan to take the necessary steps to deal with the COVID-19 crisis.
There can be no strong society without strong health care.”
I am sorry for the loss of every grandmother, grandfather, mother, father, sister, brother, son or daughter during these times.
“At the moment, we are also preparing informational videos to replace the monthly group meetings the hospital organized for pregnant women.
So many rushed to help without a second thought.
To governments and health authorities I say this – immunization services are essential.
I was part of a united team with my Turkish colleagues.
The Federation is now also opening up its large guarantee programme beyond structurally weak regions to provide guarantees for surety requirements upwards of 50 million euros (within structurally weak regions still upwards of 20 million euros, as before).
It is 16 weeks since we were notified of the first cases of novel coronavirus in the European Region.
With refuges and shelters at peak capacity in many of these countries, hotels vacant of guests have been re-tasked to meet the shortfall in emergency accommodation.
The Federal Government is working within the framework of the European Union to ensure that the internal market, free movement within the Schengen area and the transport and logistics infrastructure are maintained as far as possible.
In response to questions from ambassadors, the panel outlined the need for countries to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic in solidarity, noting that everyone was in this together.
Furthermore, 100 million euros from the funds of the Digital Pact for Schools can now also be used for learning content and licences to expand opportunities for digital teaching.
COVID-19 is a test of solidarity that we simply cannot afford to fail.
Let me begin by providing you with a snapshot of the current epidemiological situation and trends we have observed across the 53 countries in the WHO European Region.
This is critical to ensure the international response is evidence-based, measured and balanced, so that unnecessary interference with travel and trade is avoided.
She has not only first-hand knowledge of the supply shortages, sudden influxes of patients and long working hours, but also of the personal risks to nurses’ health, but is eager to return to work nonetheless.
At the Federal Chancellor’s meetings with the Heads of Government of the Länder, the Federal Government and the Länder have closely coordinated their approach.
There can be no economic recovery without COVID-19 transmission under control.
Which strategies should be pursued depends on the type of shock (e.g. financial crash, pandemic, climate event), its severity, the stage in the shock cycle, and the specific country context.
The checklist covers actions specifically designed or adapted to tackle the current COVID-19 pandemic, along with other aspects that relate to wider service planning and delivery.
Teams of experts from the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, the Robert Koch Institute and the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine are providing short-term support in the form of technology and equipment to selected African countries in the fight against the pandemic.
With many victims unable or unwilling to leave their homes for fear of infection or the penalties of breaching lockdown, these solutions rely more heavily on technologies such as online portals and on home visitations.
In areas with wider virus transmission, they recommend a combination of strategies that prioritizes patient isolation and care and hospital preparedness to prevent disease and protect lives.
The proposed reforms to perinatal health service delivery were met with enthusiasm by participants at the National Health Forum.
As you’re all aware, the first cases of this virus were reported from my Region on the final day of last year.
Value-added tax on food in restaurants and cafés will be reduced to the lower rate of seven percent for a limited period from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021.
It means addressing the urgent need for culturally sensitive assessments of health and well-being as well as relevant approaches to health-care delivery.
When asked, many would expect visible physical harm to characterize a behaviour as violent, but this is just the tip of the iceberg.
Those working in pharmacies should know how to wear personal protective equipment effectively and maintain high standards of hygiene.
The results are revealing.
A programme of this sort would have to be approved unanimously by all 27 EU member states.
For this to succeed, unhindered movement of goods is vital, both within the country and across borders.
At a video conference of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN), EU ministers of economic affairs and finance have discussed the latest progress of measures to tackle the pandemic.
Reducing food safety risks requires collaboration across sectors, stakeholders and national borders.”
These are unprecedented times.
WHO announces COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic
The Protection against Infection Act has been extended to enable the Federal Government to support the Länder with crisis measures.
WHO tool for behavioural insights on COVID-19
Are routine vaccines available in sufficient quantities to continue with routine immunization?
We are fortunate that, across Europe, many countries now have national response plans with efficient multi-sectoral measures and strong laboratory testing capacity.
Green line number in Romania: 0800 800 358
Thank you for joining us today.
WHO works continually with countries to maintain and improve their national preparedness plans based on an all-hazards approach.
The publication also includes a list of food items, including canned products, with high nutritional value which are generally affordable, accessible and have a long shelf-life.
The federal and state governments are launching an immediate investment programme to procure mobile devices for schoolchildren.
No assistance in finding employment is provided for these people, who are only temporarily in need of help.
The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented challenge for Europe.
You play a significant part in protecting the health and well-being of your fellow citizens.
“As we have said many times recently, irrespective of the disease’s trajectory in each country, there are several actions that can and need to be taken.
In view of the global challenges, we must now pool all forces in order to master the pandemic and its consequences.
In Norway, for example, teachers and other child welfare service workers have gone mobile, instigating more direct follow-up measures with known vulnerable children.
But if Germany and France provide an impetus, said the Chancellor, it can help build a consensus in Europe.
“The difficult part is that we are still in the early stages of this pandemic response and we don’t have all the answers,” she continues. “And so our advice is always primarily to keep the patient safe.
The aim, explained the Chancellor, is to emerge strongly and together from this "extremely difficult situation".
The contingency programme takes the form of a supplementary agreement to the Digital Compact for Schools.
The conflict turned my life upside down.
Others may be concerned about measures for those returning from a red or yellow area with higher risks of transmission.
WHO and health authorities in countries are facilitating a steady stream of information through regular reporting, daily situation reports, social media posts, briefings and interviews to the media, expanded website coverage, and videos and infographics.
And this leads me to my final message for all of us: COVID-19 is not going away any time soon.
At first, I had to fight the instinct to give up, but I cannot do that to my nurse colleagues.
Within the WHO European Region, we have a strong multilateral mechanism: the Protocol on Water and Health to the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes.
Countries working to sustain population immunity to vaccine-preventable diseases during COVID-19 pandemic
The social insurance contributions that employers must normally pay for their workforce will be fully reimbursed in future by the Federal Employment Agency.
"It will be a case of demonstrating that we are ready to defend and strengthen our Europe."
No specific measures for travellers are recommended.
The German government has agreed on a comprehensive support package for Lufthansa.
Today, all of us – citizens, family members, public health experts and leaders – are deeply concerned about how the situation in our countries and communities is developing.
Soon after, I joined the EU-funded SIHHAT project, a close collaboration between the Turkish Ministry of Health and WHO, aimed at improving the overall health status of the Syrian population in the country.
New WHO/Europe tool for behavioural insights: critical to inform COVID-19 response
Of the 10 countries in the Region with the highest numbers of cases, there have been optimistic signs in terms of declining numbers in Spain, Italy, Germany, France and Switzerland in recent weeks.
Consequently, the likelihood of police officers and health care workers carrying the virus into prisons rose dramatically.
As of today, 152 countries across the globe are affected by this new virus and over 7000 people have lost their lives to it.
Groups of three staff members were kept together and always worked the same hours.
Ensuring good and consistently applied WASH, environmental cleaning and waste management practices in communities, homes, schools, marketplaces and health-care facilities will further help to prevent human-to-human transmission of the COVID-19 virus.
Under strict hygiene and protective conditions, shops of all sizes will be allowed to open, and recreational sport will again be permitted outside.
We have deployed experts to support countries in central Asia, the Balkans and south Caucasus.
The scientific consensus is that climate change will increase the heat-related burden of disease if we do not implement strong levels of adaptation.
As lockdowns were introduced, we shifted strategy to offer remote, virtual support to countries – using webinars from Venice, for instance, to assist small countries and the Regions for Health Network.
Given the ongoing crisis, the aim is to avoid pushing organisers into insolvency.
Good morning.
The Federal Centre for Health Education (BZgA) recommends that you do not use buses or trains to get to work.
I have two key messages for you today.
Vigilance is an all of society responsibility.
The Region remains very much in the grip of this pandemic.
Personally, I am trying to stick to what has worked for me in the past when I want to be calm.
The extended budget framework would have to be ratified by all EU member states. In Germany this would be the responsibility of the German Bundestag.
"The curve is flattening slightly and the number of active cases is dropping slightly."
This is not an ‘exit’: there is no fast track to the new normal.
Beyond defeating the disease, the great test all countries will soon face is whether current feelings of common purpose will shape society after the crisis.
Everyone needs to do their part.
“At the first symptoms of the disease, I called the ambulance, but I had already infected my own daughter.
WHO/Europe continues to actively support Member States in assessing the status of their IPC programmes in order to determine the steps needed to fully implement the core components of IPC at national, area and acute health-care facility levels.
Europe is entering an economic recession.
The Lancet recently published a paper highlighting the importance of NCDs and obesity-related conditions in the COVID-19 response.
Let me take this opportunity to thank all of you – the public health community across the European Region – for your professionalism and your dedication in the face of this pandemic.
Supporting older people during the COVID-19 pandemic is everyone’s business
For the elderly, for the young, for those losing income and jobs, for those with anxiety, for people in treatment, and for all of us, the burden has been heavy, and the future uncertain.
“In this situation of uncertainty, we explored all the ideas we had to tackle the potential outbreak.
The KfW Instant Loan 2020 supports companies with more than ten employees with loans amounting to up to 25 percent of their annual turnover in 2019.
There has been an impact on routine services, such as childhood immunizations, chronic disease care, and the like.
Your excellencies, honorable Ambassadors and delegates, I applaud all of your governments, our Member States who are contributing your resources (human and financial), your energy and your goodwill for these global efforts.
Equally important is understanding that the long-term care workforce is dominated by women and that, in the Region, this includes a large proportion of migrant workers.
Online enquiries to violence prevention support hotlines have increased up to 5 times.
First, we are dealing with the “Four Cs” scenarios of the outbreak:
Natural environments and accessible green spaces also play a direct role in health and well-being.
From available reports, we also know that 1 out of 10 infections are in health care workers and many more are in quarantine, itself affecting the ability of our health services to respond.
She noted that although case numbers are currently comparatively low, the African Region has seen exponential geographical spread of the virus over the past 2 weeks.
WHO also plays a critical role in providing advice to the public about how they can protect themselves and others – for example, explaining how hand and respiratory hygiene and social distancing limit transmission.
One area that China has been very effective in has been implementing a differentiated, location-specific response to limiting transmission, so that public health measures are tailored to the differing realities on the ground.
Now, as scientists work together across the globe to develop a safe, effective vaccine against COVID-19, we are once again reminded of how precious vaccines are.
Last Wednesday, I joined a press conference in Rome with the Minister of Health of Italy, the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety and the Director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.
The extraordinary measures applied in Spain and other countries are therefore warranted to control the virus and reduce its widespread consequences.
Over the past week, clusters of new cases have emerged in places – Wuhan, and the Republic of Korea - where the virus had apparently disappeared.
But we must maintain the focus on containment and suppression even when community transmission is well-established.
Just as COVID-19 has re-engineered so many societal practices, cities and countries are adapting their efforts to sustain prevention and response to interpersonal violence.
The customer must not be charged any fees for issues, transferring or redeeming the voucher.
All of this is another side to the grim face of interpersonal violence, with perpetrators who are no less guilty and victims who are no less traumatized, often with lifelong consequences.
For some, that translated into apathy or a reluctance to follow recommended guidelines.
I am confident that we can count on EUPHA and its membership to work with us to achieve this ambitious agenda together.
The safety nets are to be operational as of 1 June.
“We are grateful to the partners for the ability to overcome the challenges of global travel restrictions to join this operation, but also to the Government of Tajikistan for their commitment to place the health of their citizens first.”
This was echoed by a large number of Member States.
This is what the EU is working towards, announced Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Heiko Maas.
The focus is on how Europe can deal with the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic, and how we can do so together, reported Chancellor Angela Merkel on Thursday evening in Berlin, following the video conference of the European Council.
These are excerpts from the interview.
“I have known I wanted to be a nurse ever since I was a child, when I looked up at health-care workers as heroes in their white uniforms.
The Federal Government, in coordination with credit insurers, has rolled out a protective shield with a volume of 30 billion euros to safeguard German businesses’ supplier credits.
On 7 June 2020, WHO will mark the second global World Food Safety Day.
A WHO-led team of experts from WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) arrived in Italy on Monday 24 February to support Italian authorities in understanding the situation.
“I have worked at the Izmir migrant health centre since August 2017 and I feel very happy to be working in a job I have studied for.
Physical distancing measures refer to:
We hope we will get them in time.”
This will require us to invest in a climate-friendly infrastructure and will entail appropriate CO2 pricing.
The Director-General accepted the advice given by the IHR Emergency Committee, which had reconvened on 30 January.
Public health authorities’ response to the pandemic is being challenged by an avalanche of misinformation on the Internet and social media.
We are all united in our efforts.
While battling this disease and its spread, we must also learn from the response here in Italy.
“This tool is a breakthrough resource for health systems decision-makers tackling the pandemic,” says Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe. “By mapping and analysing country narratives on response and providing essential data and evidence on COVID-19, the platform will be of real value to those who are responding to the crisis across the Region and seeking to mitigate its far-reaching consequences.”
“Everyone is afraid of the virus, but it is comforting to know which measures work best to protect ourselves.
Applicable legal regulations have been adapted to the current situation in order to safeguard the supply of pharmaceuticals.
At the WHO Regional Office for Europe, we have been reaching out to our Member States to provide guidance, operational support and technical assistance, and will continue to do so in the coming weeks and months.
"The latest trends in the figures give grounds for cautious optimism," she said at a press conference at the Federal Chancellery.
Physical distancing is not social isolation.”
A rigorous surveillance programme to identify, test and isolate all cases and to trace and quarantine their contacts is vital to ensure that localized outbreaks do not get out of control.
He added that WHO/Europe will continue to support countries in preparing for and, if necessary, managing cases of the virus.
They include workshops for people with disabilities, employment promotion institutions and language course providers.
This means finding ways to integrate infection prevention and control as a routine part of daily life for everyone across all settings.
Understanding the pathways of different shocks can also help policy-makers prepare for shocks and their fallout, and manage them better when they occur.
Strictly following good handwashing and personal hygiene practices is important for all, but especially in health-care settings, where it protects both patients and health-care workers.
Statement – COVID-19: collaboration, coordination, communication – Joining forces for healthier populations
The Federal Government is also in close contact with the Länder to do what it can to support the comprehensive measures that are being implemented at regional and local level to prevent domestic violence.
To this end, the federal government will be investing an addition 500 million euros, while the federal states are to invest 50 million euros.
This is particularly important, as even brief disruptions of immunization services will result in an increased number of susceptible individuals in the population and increase the possibility of outbreaks.”
This will benefit both the country and the entire European Region,” concluded Dr O’Connor.
The new lifestyle that we now have may trigger serious mental health issues that require us to seek expert advice,” Görgülü said.
In a spirit of solidarity, we all have to be ready to contribute our part to protect those people at highest risk.
On 6 May further steps will be discussed, once we have a clear idea for instance of the impact of opening shops.
WHO is doing everything it can to investigate this outbreak together with Chinese authorities, global experts and partners to understand it fully and contain it as early as possible.
March brought the third phase of infection control measures in Lombardy prisons, when the first cases of COVID-19 transmission in detention facilities were detected.
General rehabilitation services have been re-prioritized to reduce COVID-19 exposure risk to patients and staff while ensuring that the highest standards of care and safety are maintained during this exceptional period.
In addition to procurement, intensive work is being done to build up production capacities also in Germany and Europe.
For travel booked prior to 8 March 2020, which could not take place as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, travel organisers can offer customers vouchers for the sum paid, rather than an immediate reimbursement.
This is also an opportunity to demonstrate and further strengthen the cohesion within our society.
For the next 3 weeks, 23 experts from the Polish EMT – comprising anaesthesiologists, infectious disease specialists, nurses, paramedics and humanitarian aid experts – will work hand in hand with their Tajik peers to share best practice on the treatment of severe cases of COVID-19 and on preventing the spread of disease.
A cut in value added tax (VAT): From 1 July to 31 December 2020, VAT is to be reduced from 19% to 16%, while the reduced rate will be cut from 7% to 5%.
Labour law has temporarily been made more flexible and options for generating additional income improved in order to create incentives for German workers to take up employment in the agricultural sector.
In addition to further improvements to infrastructure and equipment, the master plan for perinatal health calls for investment in the health workforce and improvements to the transportation of mothers and newborns between hospitals.
This plan was intensely tested in November 2019 when the country was struck by a large earthquake.
The network supports a health promotion approach as the uniting factor, along with a focus on physical, environmental, social and mental well-being components, and is therefore particularly relevant during the COVID-19 crisis.
The reported link to a wholesale fish and live animal market in Wuhan could indicate an exposure link to animals.
Servicemen and women are also supporting personnel in care and retirement homes, as well as in the health authorities.
The Federal Government is striving to minimise this impact with a package of measures unprecedented in the history of the Federal Republic.
This plan outlines the activities and resources needed by international health organizations globally, including WHO, to implement priority public health measures in support of countries to prepare for and respond to COVID-19 until April 2020.
I graduated from nursing in 2014 in Aleppo, Syria and after working for 6 months in a private hospital, I decided to come to Turkey.
Should Europe expect it, if yes when?
To take effective steps to combat the novel coronavirus, the Federal Minister of Health and the Federal Minister of the Interior have set up a crisis unit.
To the many who are experiencing this loss, my thoughts are with you.
The burden of COVID-19 is a shared one that requires a collective response from those near and far from its immediate impact today.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us today.
In the changing context of food safety, WHO supports Member States in the European Region to strengthen national food safety systems to better manage food safety risks and respond to food safety emergencies, including those stemming from the animal–human interface.
“These difficult times bring out our strengths and weaknesses.
No country, area or health system can claim to be free of HAIs.
The goal of the task force is to encourage a coherent response and anticipate any unfavourable consequences that may stem from the pandemic, while shifting towards easing of restrictions and recovery.
“It is possible to keep active, even when you are confined indoors.
Together with a panel of experts – Manfred Huber, Coordinator, Healthy Ageing, Disability and Long-Term Care at WHO/Europe; Catherine Smallwood, Senior Emergency Officer at WHO/Europe; and Alana Officer, Unit Head, Demographic Change and Healthy Ageing at WHO Headquarters – Dr Kluge answered questions on the challenges faced by the older population and those who support and care for them in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak.
The past few weeks have been used to strengthen the health system in many areas, partly also thanks to the efforts of the federal states and local authorities. The Chancellor expressed her great respect for these bodies.
On Wednesday the Cabinet decided on measures to help them.
The WHO Country Office in China, supported by the Regional Office for the Western Pacific and global headquarters, has provided the Government of China with technical advice on detection, testing, isolation and quarantine measures to support a rapid response to contain the outbreak.
Dear colleagues,
The WHO European Region is the region most affected by NCD-related morbidity and mortality globally.
That is why Germany will continue to provide financial support for the UN and the World Bank she said – whether by ensuring the swift payment of additional funding or by reallocating funds.
The Chancellor told conference participants, "We still have a responsibility to implement the Paris Agreement and it is still up to us to improve national contributions by 2030."
Dr Kluge visited one of the pilot sites to discuss changes in practices and the needs of the health workforce with the health workers themselves.
There is still a consensus between the German government and the state premiers of all federal states that although infection numbers are dropping, the protective measures in place should be retained, reported Angela Merkel.
The actions of the German government pursue three goals:
From my great grandmother, who raised me, I acquired the penchant for cleanliness, strict adherence to hygiene and the awareness of how important nurses are.
The Standing Committee welcomes the efforts of WHO and its Regional Office for Europe to support countries in taking all measures required, and underlines the importance of WHO as a convener of countries across the entire European Region and beyond.
To the Italian government: I ask Italy to continue its leadership and determination to contain the virus, working in full synergy, both nationally and internationally, to learn, respond and share.
Follow the recommendations of your national authorities, limit social interactions, keep washing your hands, maintain physical distancing and reduce risk to the most vulnerable in our society, the elderly and those with chronic underlying health conditions.
A trend showing increases in the number of new cases would require a quick reintroduction of physical distancing measures to contain the outbreak.
As I said, every context is different, and I don’t want to imply that what worked in some countries in Asia will also work across Europe.
"This will call for an exceptional one-off effort – Germany and France are willing to make this effort."
“The work I used to do just over a month ago, feels like another life.
The Federal Government and the Länder have agreed that staffing levels in the public health service will be increased considerably in the short term so that the local health authorities can perform the important task of contact tracing for those infected with COVID-19 and monitor compliance with the orders issued in the region.
It has also placed emphasis on increasing capacity to manage the surge in COVID-19 patients, while continuing with essential health services for chronic diseases, maternal health and mental health.
We cannot allow this situation to worsen.
For patients who remain very unwell and sedentary for a prolonged period, such as those in intensive care, additional therapy interventions alongside respiratory physiotherapy are required.
Prevention and control of NCDs at core of COVID-19 response
For the past two months, WHO has been working around the clock to coordinate the response to the outbreak.
The overriding interest is to protect people’s health and this takes precedence over commercial interests.
Whenever social, economic, administrative and legal barriers inhibiting refugees’ and migrants’ ability to support efforts have been lifted, they have contributed to better health for all.
On Thursday, the Cabinet will meet again, in order to discuss the domestic manufacture of personal protective equipment.
As scientists around the world work to develop a vaccine against the novel coronavirus and health care capacities are stretched in responding to COVID-19, national routine immunization programmes are more critical than ever before.
All those dying in homes from COVID-19 have the right to be attended to and to receive end-of-life care, including symptom relief with adequate medication, surrounded by their loved ones.
Federal and state governments thus urgently recommend the use of protective masks, especially on public transport and when shopping.
Italy, one of the countries hardest hit by COVID-19 in the European Region, was forced to repurpose much of its health-care personnel as COVID-19 cases mounted starting in late February 2020, particularly those working in infectious diseases, including immunization.
She pointed to social distancing, with a minimum of 1.5 m, the use of face coverings, and the emergency mechanism that kicks in when infections rise in a specific area.
The COVID-19 pandemic has overwhelmed health systems across countries in the WHO European Region regardless of income.
A: Health systems everywhere are struggling to cope with COVID-19 and China is no different.
Statement – Through transparent knowledge-sharing, tailored support on the ground, and steadfast solidarity we will beat COVID-19
We may not always have the best evidence at hand on which to base our decisions, but we do not have the luxury of time to wait until better evidence becomes available.
Corporate donations of medical supplies such as protective equipment for hospitals, nursing services and fire brigades continue to be exempt from VAT.
“This is our response to the new situation in Germany, Europe and the rest of the world,” said Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn.
The WHO Regional Office for Europe (WHO/Europe) is one of WHO’s six regional offices, which together with its headquarters in Geneva provide leadership on global health matters, shaping the health research agenda, setting norms and standards, and articulating evidence-based policy options.
The highlight of the two-day dialogue was the high-ranking segment with UN Secretary-General António Guterres and Chancellor Angela Merkel.
“Nurses may forget to log in with their badges, because their minds are entirely focused upon their responsibilities.
The European Region remains at the epicentre of the pandemic.
One-third of globally reported cases are in the European Region.
Three quarters (74%) of the responding countries reported that they have included continuity of NCD services within their COVID-19 response plans, but the survey revealed that they have been able to protect these services to different extents.
During the pandemic, it is necessary to pursue certain objectives collaboratively, so that long-term care systems can be strengthened, pressure on health systems eased, and health outcomes improved.
Closely following WHO guidelines, we deployed virology experts in mobile units to reach all health-care facilities, including long-term care facilities for older people.”
This year, the general government balance is expected to show a deficit equivalent to 7.25 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP).
This can be used to bridge liquidity bottlenecks over the next three months.
This is all the more applicable, since some of the structural change needed to protect the climate, such as ending lignite mining, will be taking place in this part of the country.
We stand to benefit from that in our Region and I echo Dr Kluge in saying that we will do the best we can to manage and use the resources well and get the best results.
Germany will only do well, if Europe does well, said the Chancellor.
“Handwashing and hygiene are crucial to preventing the spread of viruses,” said the North Macedonian Minister of Health, Dr Venko Filipche, in his statement for the day. “This is one of the first recommendations we have given and remains the basic and most reliable mechanism for protection against COVID-19.
I cannot risk infecting them; we cannot share a table at dinner.
Those cuts prevented many people from accessing the health care they needed.
Today, looking at the measures in place across the Region, 43 countries have implemented partial or full domestic movement restrictions, and 32 countries are moving to ease some of the public health and social measures, as they manage to suppress the transmission of the virus.
Many heads of state and government see the WHO as the most important organisation in the coordination of international cooperation to fight the pandemic.
"We are living in atypical times," underlined Chancellor Angela Merkel in a statement following the meeting.
Angela Merkel said, "These are all things where the new federal states have a high level of interest and also a great need to build viable economic structures for the future".
Simply put, our behaviour today, will set the course for the pandemic.
Expiring approvals are automatically extended by six months without the need for a further income assessment.
Thank you very much.
The fact that the number of new cases continues to decrease with every passing day shows that the extraordinary effort made by the Chinese population to limit transmission of COVID-19 – through social distancing, quarantine, and careful hand and respiratory hygiene – has made a difference.
"That will not dispel all fears, but it can help individuals to assess the actual risks much more realistically," explained the Federal Health Minister.
I am sincerely grateful for his support.
We need to be thinking ahead at all times: where might we all be in two weeks – or two months?
Here, I mostly assisted with bandaging but quickly realized that other more experienced nurses had many skills and competencies they put to use in traumatology care.
They also indicated in which stages of a shock cycle – 1) preparedness, 2) shock onset and alert, 3) shock impact and management, and 4) recovery and learning – these resilience-enhancing strategies are likely to be the most effective.
As you are aware, a new WHO Rapid Risk Assessment from 28 February, has raised WHO’s assessment of the level of risk to “very high” for China, the Region, and the globe.
To parents: make no mistake, the safest choice also during this pandemic is to vaccinate your children.
Benefits to this style of working include no need for participants to wear personal protective equipment or, indeed, to travel to another country, as would usually be required by a mission or team of WHO experts supporting national authorities during a public health crisis.
The paper listing the most important measures taken to date by the German government and the German Bundestag to contain the pandemic is 22 pages long.
Policy-makers have choices, even in difficult circumstances.
I ask your governments to continue to reach out to us to assist however you can with the preparedness and response efforts.
COVID-19 cannot be permitted to claim this collateral damage.
That action must be an all-of-society, all of government action.
As always, WHO remains on hand to support you.
Complacency could be our worst enemy at this time.
For more information on the WHO Regional Office for Europe and its work to support health and well-being for all, visit www.euro.who.int.
Furthermore, although western Europe carries the burden in terms of the absolute number of cases, it is in the countries in the eastern part of the Region where the curve is now steepening.
The goal is to return patients to their previous level of function and with an ability to be independent again.
Any doctor, nurse or paramedic team coming from another country to practice health care in an emergency needs to arrive as part of a team.
It recruited additional health personnel and filled prescriptions remotely to reduce hospital traffic and risk of transmission.
Is contact tracing functioning optimally?
Thank you very much.
With state guarantees for corporate bonds and loans and equity loan schemes the Fund will bridge liquidity bottlenecks and strengthen businesses’ capital base.
COVID-19 has highlighted a fundamental truth: when one of us lacks health and care, we are all at risk.
Over the past 2 decades, the concept has become relevant in relation to societal response to health emergencies and major societal shocks.
The second day was dedicated to IPC in the context of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak.
Both the EU and NATO have agreed on a number of joint steps to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic.
Parents with children under 8 in Poland can access an additional 14 days of childcare allowance.
Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan first stops for new WHO Regional Director for Europe
“That first day was particularly challenging, but I pulled through.
Cooperation is key since those making decisions about long-term care services are not the same as those managing health systems.
The recommendations were made following extensive consultations with the national authorities and are based on scientific evidence, experience and best practices.
A central component of this are improvements to reduced hours compensation benefit (see below).
Here, WHO has online training resources and guidance to assist.
Schools for Health in Europe network mobilizes to support school children’s well-being throughout the COVID-19 crisis
The Schools for Health in Europe (SHE) network is supporting countries in ensuring the well-being of school children in the WHO European Region by sharing examples of good practice and teaching material developed for these unusual times.
The Federal Government is also discussing joint responses with European partners and institutions on a regular basis and in a targeted manner in a spirit of trust.
The Federal Government is supporting social engagement with a large number of measures.
There are no limits on the number of people who can attend and any health worker can sign up.
A new plan for health care in North Macedonia
While it seems, thankfully, that most people with COVID-19 have mild illness, all of us have loved ones or know people in our home communities who are elderly or who are living with an existing health condition that may place them at higher risk.
Due to the complex nature of the COVID-19 situation, countries are at different stages.
The Franco-German Initiative for the economic recovery of Europe following the coronavirus crisis provides for the following measures:
The recovery plan, which is worth 750 billion euros, is to be embedded in the reworked EU budget.
To governments in Europe: Be ready to identify and test any cases of COVID-19, treat patients with dignity and compassion, prevent onward transmission, and communicate with the public.
This was our call to action for every country to take its boldest action to fight this new virus.
I do still miss seeing my colleagues’ smiles at work though, which are now covered by masks and protective equipment.
“Even though nurses represent the largest health workforce in Ukraine, their voice is not always heard in decision-making processes on patient care and treatment,” says Kateryna Balabanova, Director of the Centre for Nursing Development.
Over these past three months, since the first cases were reported, the WHO Regional Office for Europe has worked around the clock to support countries prepare and respond to COVID-19.
An important part of this will involve investing in the future – in climate action, innovative mobility and digitalisation, the Chancellor explained.
Companies and research institutions are receiving funding in a targeted manner for this purpose.
In recent years, food safety in the European Region has been affected by developments that have changed the conditions under which food is produced, processed, traded, distributed and consumed.
Sadly, over 84,000 people in Europe have lost their lives to the virus.
Now I realize that doing my job properly is an acceptable contribution.
In the European Region, we provide both diverse and tailored support to the 53 Member States, as needed.
We call it an economy of well-being.
Thanks to their care, I have become twice as strong as I was when I arrived”.
Calls to Childline, run by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, from children reporting physical or emotional violence have increased 36% and 31% respectively.
The Patient Service of the German National Association of SHI-Accredited Physicians is providing more information on the coronavirus under telephone hotline 116 117.
All of these factors compound the issue I would like to address today.
We must look at the economy and the environment together.
At this stage the focus is on limiting further human-to-human transmission.
The guidance aims to protect the health and well-being of all those who live, work in and visit these settings and the general population at large.
Tragically, over 181,000 people have lost their lives.
We want social cohesion, but need to keep our physical distance.
Collaboration, coordination and communication across the public health community are essential; supporting a digital dialogue with citizens and communities is key.
The aim is to protect the health of the people, save jobs, support companies and retain social cohesion.
Support for the United Nations
Over 43,000 members of the public and more than 4800 experts from the business community, academia, federal ministries and other organisations took part in the Federal Government’s hackathon entitled “WirVsVirus”.
In Spain, rental assistance programmes have been introduced for homeless people and more substantive income security policies are being introduced.
All in all, I think this is a balanced outcome," stressed the Chancellor.
This proposal will be discussed at the next meeting of the European Council on 18 and 19 June.
Working together to strengthen health organisations
In addition, governments should advise and help communities to ensure that anyone isolated due to COVID-19 is comfortable and supported.
The outbreak of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) continues to constitute a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC), WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus declared Friday.
However, since the national authorities declared a public health emergency and introduced physical distancing measures, we only get about two or three hundred customers daily.
It was important for them to see us working side by side and not just making theoretical statements.
The Robert Koch Institute recommends the use of a non-surgical cloth or community mask to reduce the risk of infection.
It is at crucial times like this when we have to demonstrate what mottos such as “leaving no one behind” truly mean.
In particular, WHO/Europe is working with countries to identify reference laboratories in the Region with the capacity to test for this new virus.
Technological and scientific advances have provided new opportunities for managing food safety risks, as well as for investigating and responding to food safety incidents and emergencies.
WHO/Europe and partners established a roster of 6 international laboratories in the Region to act as regional referral laboratories to provide testing support to laboratories working at country level.
And the sum earmarked for investment in the 2020 national budget has risen to a record 48.8 billion euros.
“To limit the possibility of infection, we are making use of innovative measures, such as the use of technological devices which allow nurses to monitor a patient’s condition remotely.
Countries should be prepared to vaccinate those at higher risk and ensure everyone, including the most marginalized, will have equal access to a COVID-19 vaccine when it becomes available.
The German government will guarantee the full amount of the voucher with a supplementary state guarantee in addition to the statutory protection against insolvency of the organiser.
Will the German Bundestag be involved?
In response, governments, and health authorities must come up with answers to identify when, under what conditions and how we can consider a safe transition through a gradual shift in measures.
4. Strengthening economic and industrial resilience and the sovereignty of the EU, while generating new impetus for the Single Market.
Public health efforts against COVID-19 require a whole-of-society approach and must include refugees and migrants in national plans and strategies.
"That is why the only answer can be: more Europe, a strong Europe and a smoothly functioning Europe – in all member states."
And please remember, that violence is preventable, not inevitable.
I ask your governments to coordinate and integrate the response across all sectors, including regular and timely communication with all sectors and elements of the community.
On World Refugee Day, I would like to thank refugees and migrants for the myriad ways that they are contributing to the COVID-19 response,” Dr Kluge added.
Longer-term reconstruction support
With plans to extend the service to 100 lines, the main challenge is to find sufficient staff, explains Florentina Furtunescu from the National Institute of Public Health. “Human resource capacity needs to match technical capacity and we are always looking for ways to engage more personnel.
Older women, people with disabilities, those who are displaced or are refugees, and those living in conflict affected areas are especially vulnerable.
While the EMT provides the health-care workforce with hands-on advice on the treatment of severe COVID-19 cases and the prevention of in-hospital disease spread, GOARN laboratory and surveillance support will focus on reinforcing the Tajik public health laboratory specialists with knowledge and practice to detect and monitor disease transmission.
“We work hard to enable nurses to reach their full potential, encouraging professional training opportunities geared towards positions of authority and responsibility.
When I inquired what had happened, he told me his mother-in-law had died and how he regretted not being able to comfort his wife.
In addition to its work on emergency preparedness and response and its support to strengthen infection prevention and control capacities, WHO has developed a set of technical guidance documents on maintaining essential health services.
As a patient’s respiratory symptoms improve and as they come off ventilatory support, functional rehabilitation picks up pace with inputs from the entire multi-disciplinary therapy team, which may include occupational therapists, physiotherapists, speech and language therapists and dieticians.
The good news is that the Region is alert and on guard.
“The forthcoming 2030 European regional immunization agenda, which will embrace the principle of equitable access to immunization, is one of the flagship initiatives in the European Programme of Work (EPW),” he added.
Although some research work gives us grounds for hope, we still have no drugs and no vaccine for the novel virus.
It is therefore important to protect them with adequate personal protective equipment.
Over the past few months I have been communicating with journalists from all over our European Region – it is always a pleasure for me to do this because, through journalists, we at WHO can better understand what general public wants to know, their concerns and hopes.
These include the violence prevention frameworks INSPIRE and RESPECT, which are being localized and adapted to the unique circumstances of COVID-19 and its response.
WHO is deeply troubled by the reports from many countries, including Belgium, Bulgaria, France, Ireland, Russian Federation, Spain, UK, and others of increases in interpersonal violence – including violence against women and men, by an intimate partner and against children - because of the COVID-19 response.
Fear and misinformation have generated a dangerous myth that consuming high-strength alcohol can kill the COVID-19 virus.
We must step up.
For the year 2020, the Federation will assume a guarantee of up to 30 billion euros for compensation payments from credit insurers.
Health-care workers are looking to IPC to provide the answers to a lot of burning questions right now,” concluded Director Schwaber. “This meeting gave us an opportunity to address some of those questions, to work through scenarios and go back to our home countries hopefully with more knowledge about the challenges we are facing and the resources available to confront those challenges.”
“I wish to salute all those brave and selfless health-care workers who are on the front line, seeking to prevent, contain and mitigate the effects of this pandemic and caring for those who are seriously ill. I thank you for the huge contribution you are making.
Despite being afraid, we should be guided by our humanity and show solidarity towards one another.
Communication is crucial during the transition.
These measures are necessary in order to break chains of infection in an effective manner.
Germany has also pledged to collaborate on work to develop a vaccine, as well as treatments and diagnostics.
Which brings me to my final point: more than ever, this is a time for international solidarity and cooperation, as my fellow Regional Director of Europe said.
We commend France on its ability to rapidly identify 2019-nCoV suspect cases and diagnose them.
The newly published WHO/Europe nutrition guidance explains how to be strategic while buying and using ingredients, and how to follow safe food handling practices and limit salt, sugar and fat intake.
While at first some were reluctant to be assigned to COVID-19 positive women, I insisted on the need for all midwives to go through the personal and professional growth opportunity that the COVID-19 challenge offers.
“For many of these patients, rehabilitation to regain function and independence will continue after discharge from a hospital, with the collaborative support of social, community care and rehabilitation services,” said Ms Murray.
A commitment to placing principles of equality and nondiscrimination at the centre of building stronger and more resilient health systems must regard culture as a key to advancing towards universal health coverage and implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We must draw on our unique competencies to identify the best way forward, for it is the people who work in the wards every day that can together, create a better health-care system.
"That was a first, remarkable step," said Angela Merkel.
The Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and Spain remain among the top 10 countries around the world reporting the most cases in the past 24 hours.
Every year, high temperatures affect the health of many people, particularly older people, infants, people who work outdoors and the chronically ill.
Out of school, at-risk children are off the radar of education and social sectors.
“Nurses are the heart of our health-care system”: Shoshy Goldberg, Government Chief Nursing Officer, Israel
Over the last two weeks, I have visited Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Serbia and North Macedonia.
President Pendarovski also highlighted the need to first quantify the level of air pollution, collect credible data and monitor the effects of exposure to air pollution on public health.
Thanks to comprehensive testing, those who have tested positive for COVID-19 can be isolated rapidly and chains of infection broken in an effective manner.
Around 65,000 Germans who were abroad at the start of the pandemic have been brought back to Germany on 256 special flights (source: Federal Foreign Office).
Package of measures worth 453 billion euros
The difference now is that others know it too.
Rather, the situation in each country—sometimes even within countries— is different.
Since 2017, the European Region has been experiencing a resurgence of measles.
What is needed is a "swift recovery" – so it is "not only justified but also necessary that the European side now provide funding".
Speaking in the German Bundestag, the Chancellor underlined the importance of international cooperation in efforts to fight COVID-19 – within the European Union, the G7 and the G20.
Students who are recipients of student loans will be entitled to work during the coronavirus pandemic to supplement their income.
Every single person can do their part to ensure that our country overcomes this challenge.
This is particularly challenging for the hospitality and catering sector, but also for all other sectors that are now opening.
He noted that with over 40% of confirmed cases of COVID-19 globally now in Europe, the Region is currently at the epicentre of the epidemic.
Exposing this violence helps victims receive the justice, care and treatment that they need.
“To aid health-care workers, our Centre and the analytical platform VoxUkraine, have recently developed an educational video about how to effectively use masks, gloves and protective gowns.
On Thursday, reported Angela Merkel, it was re-affirmed that large-scale events cannot be permitted before 31 August.
Why do we need a Recovery Fund?
The purpose of the meeting was to reassess the level of implementation of the 8 core components of IPC and share country and subregional experiences.
"This was a very, very important meeting for me today, and I would once again like to express my warmest thanks.
They can be redeemed once the current travel restrictions are lifted.
Some health services have introduced parallel tracks, with regular check-ups and vaccinations for babies staggered to ensure limited indoor waiting times, and kept fully separate from curative care for others.
To mitigate the mortality impact of COVID-19, it is important to reduce its spread in long-term care systems.
Bulgaria launches new national programme amid pandemic on violence against women and children
He had three messages for ambassadors:
“This exercise serves as a good example of international coordination between WHO, the medical workforce and Kyrgyz national authorities.
Health System Response Monitor: new tool to analyse COVID-19 response measures across European countries launched
Complexity and uncertainty lie ahead, which means that we are entering a period where we may need to rapidly adjust measures, introduce and remove restrictions, and ease restrictions gradually, whilst constantly monitoring the effectiveness of these actions and the response of the public.
My second message is that through the Regional Office, our strong network of Country Offices, using global expertise and drawing on partners, we are delivering 24/7 effective support to tackle COVID-19 on the ground.
My team and I work tirelessly to ensure that should the situation worsen, we are prepared for the worst-case scenarios.”
“COVID-19 has unleashed an infodemic, making it challenging for people to navigate the overload of information and misinformation available.
The question is not whether there will be a second wave.
To effectively tackle a COVID-19 disease outbreak in prisons, state authorities need to establish an up-to-date coordination system that brings together health and justice sectors, keeps prison staff well-informed, and guarantees that all human rights in the facilities are respected.
Since the end of January, WHO/Europe has organized 8 high level missions: to Italy, Spain (x2), Belarus, Ukraine, Georgia, and Azerbaijan – assessing the situation on the ground, supporting decisions makers, and providing recommendations for additional response actions to prevent further disease spread and save lives.
The plan is for schools and school authorities to lend the mobile devices to students.
Instead of working towards long-term goals, I now must focus on the here and now, answering pressing needs that we must adapt to rapidly.”
As a public health community we need to be innovating in terms of what kind of testing can be carried out for people who are asymptomatic in the types of settings we have in Africa.
The joint crisis unit is to ramp up crisis prevention measures in Germany, with the involvement of other federal ministries.
Yesterday, I received a report from our second mission to the country that indicates an encouraging decline in new COVID-19 cases.
Later, when I worked as a urological doctor, I saw nurses carry out many highly technical and complicated tasks.
At the same time, agriculture and food industry mergers and acquisitions have changed the structure of the food sector and power relationships within it.
WHO/Europe’s guidance stresses that all possible efforts should be made by ministries of health to equitably sustain high population immunity.
I want to take the opportunity of European Immunization Week to reiterate that we must not, especially now, let down our guard on immunizations.
1. Strategic sovereignty in the health sector – elaboration of an EU "health strategy".
Access to information and adequate health care provision, including for mental disorders, are essential aspects in preserving human rights in such places.
A 67-year-old woman in Talas displayed symptoms consonant with breast cancer, so her family doctor referred her to the National Oncology Centre in Bishkek.
This unmet need has been exacerbated by the pandemic with many services shutting down to reduce the spread of the virus and due to a lack of human resources, particularly in places that previously had sparse service provision and poor access.
That it has been issued as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; it must also state how long it is valid.
“We can prevent further impact of COVID-19 on our health care systems by assuring that individuals of all ages remain vaccinated according to national schedules.
Entry restrictions on international air and maritime traffic also apply to the EU’s external borders.
It’s important that there is dialogue among IPC providers and in a broader health-care setting.
The guidance is built on concrete needs and challenges experienced by people working and living in prison.
“The challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic have given us the opportunity to focus on teamwork, to showcase the added value of nurses and their central role in patient treatment.
The government has already implemented containment measures – testing suspect cases, tracing their contacts and isolating the sick.
We at WHO, have published guidance on what the health sector can do.
In France, Germany, Italy, Norway and Spain, pharmacies and supermarkets have become safe spaces where the utterance of a code word (“MASK 19”) signals that urgent protection from a violent partner or cohabitant is required.
It provides practical considerations for health authorities across the Region when designing responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, with NCDs factored in.
Triggering new dynamics
This was based on the 13-fold increase in cases in the previous two weeks, and the number of affected countries across the globe.
There is no excuse for violence, and we must have zero tolerance of this misuse of power – be it physical, sexual, emotional, neglectful or financial.
Another mission is being planned to the Central Asian Republics in the coming days.
WHO/Europe recommends countries and regions to develop and implement heat–health action plans.
Many call the Green Line for information about testing activities and where and how they are performed.
However, there are examples where countries have addressed this.
More than 1000 people used to visit our pharmacy in the capital, Bishkek, every day.
They focus on identifying, testing, isolating and treating cases, as well as tracing and quarantining contacts.
This means that about 50% of the global burden of COVID-19 is in this Region.
WHO estimates that 1 in 4 women experience intimate partner violence in their lifetime, and 1 in 3 children experience some form of interpersonal violence by parents, caregivers, peers or other family members.
For example, was there any point at which an infected person could have transmitted the virus to others?
Passengers will be required to provide information about their trip and where they have been so that possible infection chains can be identified and affected individuals can be contacted.
For many, uncertainty, separation, and fear are part of daily life.
It will offer cross-country comparisons for analyses of the measures being taken by national authorities and will also track wider public health initiatives.
A team of medics from Poland went to Kyrgyzstan to share their experience from virus-hit Italy and transfer knowledge and skills to their peers.
COVID-19 has also placed another challenge for public health in the spotlight: health inequities.
“I graduated as a registered nurse in 1980 and then proceeded to complete a bachelor’s in nursing, 2 master’s degrees and a PhD.
This is intended to make the vouchers attractive to customers, whose position will be improved.
This is also of great importance to avoid placing an additional burden on health-care systems at a time when they are already severely stretched to treat COVID-19 patients.
The rise and rise of interpersonal violence – an unintended impact of the COVID-19 response on families
Statement on the COVID-19 situation in Europe
At WHO, we consider the consequences of COVID-19 on our mental health and psychological well-being to be very important.
Since mid-March, approximately 65,000 people have been brought back to Germany on around 256 special flights.
There is an unprecedented effort underway to fast track the development of a vaccine, involving the most eminent scientists and the most respected research and pharmacology institutions all over the world.
Several Member States have already initiated studies to gain these COVID-19-related insights, and I strongly urge others to do so, particularly as they transition through phases of the pandemic response,” he concluded.
“I became a nurse because I always wanted to help wherever I was needed.
To this end, it is continuing to safeguard critical transport infrastructure and services and ensure the smooth movement of goods across the trans-European transport network.
Similar need has been documented in Austria, Cyprus, Italy, the Russian Federation and Spain to name but a few.
The Robert Koch Institute website is updated daily and shows the numbers of infections in Germany, Europe and the world.
Thirdly, while we must respond to the health threat immediately facing us, we must also be thinking a step ahead, and readying ourselves for a range of scenarios.
Investing in health and social protection – especially when the economy is unstable – is the mark of responsible policy action.
Once a year, the Chancellor also attends the meeting.
Many partners, one goal
The ministers of finance have been asked for proposals on how to best address the challenges.
Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, explained that the ongoing outbreak is a test of solidarity.
We know that breastfeeding is particularly effective against infectious diseases, including respiratory diseases, because it strengthens the immune system by transferring antibodies from the mother to the newborn.
WHO/Europe then analyses this information to better tailor its risk communication and shares these concerns with the MythBusters team at WHO headquarters, so as to address them.
Angela Merkel praised the concerted consultations, also with a view to the economic recovery programme now launched.
Preparing for a long, hot summer with COVID-19
In a video conference, the European Council has consulted on the COVID-19 pandemic and looked at ways of addressing the economic repercussions of the pandemic.
Today, in the 39 countries that are easing restrictions in the European Region, our behaviour remains as important now as ever before.
Statement – Behavioural insights are valuable to inform the planning of appropriate pandemic response measures
For example, women’s shelters and advice centres have also been defined as key services and incorporated into the Federal Government’s social welfare package.
The team of experts on mission to Belarus also recommended:
For this, the German Bundestag must also be involved.
It is the time to step-up and display both responsive and responsible leadership to steer us through this storm.
All 3 had travelled from Wuhan, China and are now hospitalized in France.
WHO has supported the Centre from its very start with training and education materials.
A timely reminder that the threat of virus resurgence is never far away.
It is, however, still important for the German government that "we have an agreement on fundamental issues".
This is the main message of World Water Day 2020 on 22 March, and everyone has a role to play.
Many people have struggled to access treatment and medicines over the last 2 months, and managing this will be a burning priority.
WHO/Europe provides financial support to engage responders, technical assistance to the Romanian authorities and Green Line on logistical planning and rapid fact-checking, as well as background documentation.
On their forum, participants get the chance to consider the scientific principles guiding current advice in an environment where they will not be judged or criticized.
"We need a reconstruction fund," declared the Chancellor.
On World Refugee Day, WHO/Europe joins United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres in emphasizing the need to include refugees and migrants in efforts, plans and strategies to fight COVID-19.
If an outbreak is localised and clearly defined, such as in one hospital or home, the restrictions need only apply to this specific facility.
Reports show that 8 out of 10 deaths are occurring in individuals with at least one comorbidity, in particular those with cardiovascular disease, hypertension and diabetes, but also with a range of other chronic underlying conditions.
We continue supporting countries with clinical management, laboratory, epidemiology, surveillance and analytics, logistics and supplies.
This is unacceptable.
It has been developed in collaboration with the University of Erfurt, Germany, and the COSMO group, a consortium set up for such research.
As COVID-19 has swept through our countries and communities, never before has the importance of public health been so prominent in the collective consciousness, and never before has the demand for our expertise been so insistent.
“We will be double checking these myths one by one. It is vital that we all have the correct and confirmed information about COVID-19.”These productions provide a means of engaging with the general public in a way which is beyond the reach of traditional media.
WHO encourages countries in the European Region to continue to prepare in case this new virus is imported.
On 22 April there were 2237 new infections compared with around 4200 recoveries.
I ask your governments to keep it there,” said Dr Kluge.
I am pleased I could present my ideas to experts from the health-care community, as it reinforces my hope for change.
By that time, the Italian Ministry of Justice had issued an order to minimize the number of people who could access prisons.
Restaurants and cafés have been particularly hard hit by the COVID-19 crisis.
“Food safety is a complex health issue and is everyone’s business,” highlights Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe. “Food safety risks cannot be entirely eliminated but must be managed along the entire food chain, from farm to table.
The deal includes the following:
WHO has turned to digital platforms to ensure that, despite travel restrictions, countries in the European Region continue to benefit from timely and tailored support to respond to COVID-19.
From the early stages, Italian health professionals have been collaborating with WHO to prepare guidance that would contain best practices for the prevention and control of COVID-19 in places of detention.
"Because we have a shared interest in containing the pandemic and enabling as much of social and economic life as possible to take place again, especially cultural life and education."
One of the most frequent questions I get asked by our Member States these days is, “Are governments doing enough to stop the epidemic?” And the second question is, “Are governments doing too much.
The WHO Director General accepted this advice. “Make no mistake,” commented Dr Tedros, “This is an emergency in China, but it has not yet become a global health emergency.
Qualified and formally certified intercultural mediators:
Coordination and continuity between health and social services, as well as across information systems, must be fortified.
"We are reassessing the situation every day," said Wieler.
Comprising key health officials from the 17 CEI member states, the task force will serve as a strategic platform for updating member states, exchanging information, and sharing experiences, best practices and training.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we should really ask ourselves what risks we are taking in leaving people under lockdown in their homes with a substance that is harmful both in terms of their health and the effects of their behaviour on others, including violence,” says Carina Ferreira-Borges, Programme Manager, Alcohol and Illicit Drugs Programme, WHO/Europe.
The key NCD-specific responses to COVID-19 suggested in the article involve:
Opening businesses, permitting sporting activities, facilitating cultural activities
Last week our teams were in Belarus and next week we will send missions to Tajikistan and Turkmenistan.
This applies in particular to the phases in which we place emphasis in contact tracing and containment, which can provide us with an invaluable opportunity to prepare systems for large-scale community transmission if we use that time well.
It is through solidarity, joint action and tireless commitment to leaving no one behind that we can create a healthier future together.
COVID-19 exposes the critical importance of patient rehabilitation
The situation is worsening, and we need to stand together to tackle it.
At the beginning it was difficult, but then I just wanted to make my own personal contribution to combating the spread of the virus.
To this end, a national task force will be set up to establish key infrastructures such as a central database containing information relating to patients.
The 6 members of the WHO team are providing guidance on a full range of measures including:
Available data on the spread of the virus changes daily.
Community pharmacies are often the first port of call for people who are feeling ill.
That the voucher is also covered by a state guarantee in the event of insolvency on the part of the travel organiser.
The Economic Stabilisation Fund will acquire about 4.7 billion euros in non-voting capital which is known as a silent participation.
Being part of the decision-making system as GCNO, means assisting nurses to break the barriers that are limiting their scope of practice and to have their voices heard by the government.”
By the end of April each year, European Union member states submit their stability programmes to the European Commission and the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN), in line with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The objective of the Federal Government is for all citizens to be as well protected as possible from the risk of infection or, if they do become infected, for them to receive the best possible medical care.
We are trying to be practical, despite the context, with a cookbook-style approach.”
“For the future, I hope to see patients recover and leave the hospital.
We welcome your governments reaching out to us to assist however they can with the preparedness and response efforts.
The development of the checklist, supported by the Finnish Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, provided the opportunity to convene different partners and members of the WHO Steering Group on Prison Health, namely the Andalusian School of Public Health; the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC); the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA); the Federal Office of Public Health, Department of Communicable Diseases, Switzerland; Public Health England; the UK Collaborating Centre for the WHO Health in Prisons Programme; the University of Pisa; and the Justice Health Unit, University of Melbourne.
In recent weeks, countries have been preparing for COVID-19 and making strong progress in strengthening surveillance, point-of-entry screening, contact tracing and laboratory services.
Such cooperation entails supporting each other to:
Health professionals in Italy were among the first in Europe to face the threat of COVID-19.
Unlike in many other countries, in Italy, health professionals working in prisons fall under the Ministry of Health rather than the Ministry of Justice.
A meeting with UN and EU counterparts, including the European Union’s Ambassador to Serbia, offered the chance for WHO/Europe to understand more on how the different agencies can cooperate to improve health in Serbia.
This ensures that the healthcare system remains effective and able to provide the best possible care for those who require medical assistance.
But the approach you are taking is the only sustainable option: joining forces across all relevant sectors and working together to identify not only the challenges but, above all, the realistic, attainable solutions,” said Dr Kluge.
Dr Kluge also expressed support for the North Macedonian Government, saying that they had implemented all of WHO’s guidance on COVID-19 and that he stands ready to continue to support the Minister of Health.
The maximum amount is 15,000 euros for companies with up to ten employees.
More than 20 health workers have been infected with COVID-19 in Ukraine – most are nurses.”
Azerbaijan is 1 of the 17 countries in the WHO European Region that is receiving laboratory testing kits.
This means that a person with confirmed COVID-19 does not pass the disease on to more than 1 other person to keep the number of cases flat.
Lockdowns and movement restrictions have slowed down the transmission of COVID-19, but in many situations they have also confined those experiencing interpersonal violence with their abusers.
I want also to take a moment to personally, and on behalf of the European Regional Office, express our thanks and gratitude to those on the frontline, our heroes – the health workforce – working day and night to serve our communities.
To health professionals: You are the heroes of this response.
It also provides technical support to Member States, monitors and assesses health trends, funds medical research and provides emergency aid during disasters.
One year later, in 2019, the measles virus exposed immunity gaps in Europe, infecting over 100 000 people across all age groups.
Advice based on best practice can help avoid confusion among the general population, as well as businesses, on what measures they are required to take.
Pharmacists in Spain and France can be alerted through codewords.
As of the morning of 12 March, there are more than 20 000 confirmed cases and there have been almost 1000 deaths in the European Region.
Working groups will be set up as needed to help outline the functions and priorities of the task force, taking a closer look at thematic areas, such as COVID-19 implications for border management and tourism as summer approaches.
A hospital in the Lazio region treated both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients by dividing its emergency department into two separate areas.
We need to move as one region, as one world in scaling up our ability to prepare and respond together.
This is on condition that they are willing to use their resources to play an active role in addressing the impact of the pandemic.
"The German government intends to cushion the adverse impacts on the pandemic on academics swiftly and unbureaucratically, as well as creating additional incentives for recipients of BAföG student loans," said Federal Research Minister Anja Karliczek.
During the government question time in the German Bundestag on Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel reported on the latest developments in the COVID-19 pandemic.
With these considerations, WHO is providing a series of pointers for countries seeking to ease some restrictions while remaining vigilant and prepared to respond to any new outbreaks of COVID-19.
Compared to what is happening in Asia, and what is happening in Europe, this looks like very little, but we are concerned about the speed with which it has occurred and the socio-economic context in which it is happening, and the ability of our health systems to deal with this problem.
The most recent developments give us cause to hope that, thanks to the tireless dedication of medical and care workers, many people’s lives can be saved and the overburdening of the healthcare system that other countries have experienced be prevented.
The experience of China and others shows that testing and contact tracing, combined with social distancing measures and community mobilization, when put in place quickly and effectively, can prevent infections and save lives.
“Before COVID-19, the WHO European Region had a high burden of NCDs and childhood obesity.
That is why it is still dangerous and will remain dangerous.
When countries now discuss recovery programmes for their struggling economies, it will be important to ensure we always keep climate imperatives uppermost in our minds, said Angela Merkel.
This is an unimaginable human tragedy.
Ms Afshan Khan, UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia, said, “We built the HealthBuddy chatbot to protect children and families across the Europe and Central Asia Region.
The COVID-19 situation in the European Region remains very concerning.
The Insights Unit and the WHO Health Emergencies Programme are offering support to countries for implementation of the research tool.
For example, elective care has been cancelled in two thirds (63%) of countries, and population screening programmes have been temporarily suspended in 61% of cases.
Most of the attendees are clinicians or nurses providing direct care.
As the pandemic continues, the therapy rehabilitation caseload is expected to grow with the increased number of survivors, all of whom have a long journey of recovery and rehabilitation ahead of them.
We must be alert and open to new ways of delivering and receiving health care.
Gulbara Dadyvaeva: Community pharmacist, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Despite the current challenges of border closures and limited air transport, WHO continues to send its experts to support countries at their request, wherever it is needed.
What we are seeing in Asia, which was hit first, is a resurgence of cases whenever attention is lowered or controls eased.
It follows previous successful training sessions which took place earlier in the year to help the country develop a contingency plan in preparation for a COVID-19 outbreak.
Maintaining focus on essential health functions in communities is vital for the good of our people and their health services.
The individual federal states are now responsible for implementing the easing of restrictions.
In addition to allowing users to ask questions about COVID-19 and receive up-to-date health advice, HealthBuddy offers them the option to report fake news, myths and rumours from any country or community.
With the help of the federal government, the number of intensive care beds available in particular has been increased, said Angela Merkel.
Parents working in essential occupations should be able to postpone months in which they draw parental allowance payments since they often cannot determine the amount of work or their working hours themselves at the present, thus failing to meet the legal requirements for receiving parental allowance.
Nine virtual sessions ran in thematic groups, with health personnel and technical partners willing to adapt and work through logistical challenges.
There is still too little data, however, to allow us to properly assess the severity of the disease.
COVID-19 pandemic remains public health emergency of international concern
Ms Coutinho Rehse emphasizes that discussing and absorbing the scientific evidence is key to changing practices.
Ministers from about 30 countries accepted the invitation issued by Federal Environment Minister Svenja Schulze to discuss what measures offer a sustainable path out of the economic crisis.
The Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs of the Länder in the Federal Republic of Germany is to draft a concept for the reopening of schools by 29 April.
This is a very important link in the chain where it is decided whether all contacts can be traced in the case of new infections.
The WHO Regional Office for Europe is proud to support you, and delighted to take part in this second European Public Health Week.
I wanted to be involved in global processes, something that no local circumstance would be able to take away from me.
Focus on debt moratorium
“We see that critically ill patients can become physically weakened quickly and quite severely, so therapy input is already proving vital,” said Ms Murray.
In closing, I want to repeat my three take-home messages, requests, to your governments:
Here, the caregiving role of nurses becomes even more of the essence, as their support must replace what a visit from loved ones could have offered.”
Cuts in value added tax, assistance for local authorities, a financial allowance for families, and steps to promote the technologies of the future: The coalition government has agreed on an extensive package of measures worth 130 billion euros to revive the economy and equip Germany for the future.
In this way, particularly hard hit developing countries and emerging economies can be assisted.
If schools have closed as part of necessary measures, then children may no longer have that sense of structure and stimulation that is provided by that environment, and now they have less opportunity to be with their friends and get that social support that is essential for good mental well-being.
Despite the positive signs, this remains a time of sorrow for many.
In particular, WHO/Europe is facilitating shipment of testing kits, within a month of the virus first being isolated.
Whilst I am happy you have been able to connect today, I wish the circumstances were different.
Parents also need to be supported in managing their own stressors so that they can be models for their children.
I have realized that as a husband, father, colleague and leader, it is now that I most need to display empathy, solidarity, emotional intelligence and to walk-the-talk to leave no-one behind.
With this instrument, the Federation can support major companies as well as smaller businesses in key sectors.
Situations change fast.
They may encounter social, political, economic, linguistic and cultural barriers to accessing health-care services that require specific and targeted interventions to ensure these communities’ right to health.
Dr Kluge stated that the number of cases is expected to increase further.
Health care associated infections (HAI) are among the most common complications of hospital stays and include infections that are resistant to antimicrobials.
The Federal Government will do its utmost to avoid burdening employees and companies with laws and other regulations as far as possible.
The reasons behind these horrifying numbers are many and varied, but gender inequality, harmful use of alcohol, and undermined women’s and children’s rights are important contributors to this misuse of power.
I would like to leave you with a few short messages:
That is what motivates me and keeps me going.
“Washing your hands is such a simple act, and yet such an essential step in halting infectious disease transmission and saving lives,” notes Oliver Schmoll, Programme Manager for Water and Climate at the WHO European Centre for Environment and Health in Bonn, Germany. “But in order to be able to maintain good hand hygiene, hospitals, schools and communities require a continuous supply of safe water and the availability of functional hand hygiene facilities and soap.”
Before the pandemic, in the European Region, one in four women, and one in three children had experienced physical and/ or sexual violence in their lifetime.
“It felt rewarding to reach COVID-19 positive individuals in a timely manner, because I know we were actively preventing the spread of the disease within communities, thereby protecting the health of hundreds of people.
To support employees and employers, a fast-track parliamentary procedure has put in place the legal basis to facilitate access to short-time work allowance.
We have no drugs yet."
The rapidly increasing demand on health facilities and health-care workers threatens to leave some health systems overstretched and unable to operate effectively.
On the heels of these developments, we began preparing for potential disease outbreaks in prisons”, said infectologist Dr Ruggero Giuliani, who has been coordinating COVID-19 control measures in the San Vittore prison, located in Italy’s Lombardy region. “We assessed our supplies, medicines and the capacity of prisons to isolate suspected cases not only among prisoners, but also among police officers, health care workers and other staff”.
Unmet need for health care increased in 19 out of 28 EU countries, affecting 3 million more people in 2013 than in 2008.
Since its inception 20 years ago, the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN) has responded to crises in 85 different countries.
The Federal Government has been cooperating closely with European partners, Israel and third countries on this project.
The team also noted the need to manage the risk of exporting and importing cases from communities with high risk of transmission.
However, with COVID-19, everything and everyone in prisons became interconnected”, said Dr Giuliani.
Dushanbe, Tajikistan, 2 May 2020
It is therefore ready to support further recovery measures for Europe’s economy.
Foodborne diseases can cause illness, disability and deaths and are a significant public health concern in the WHO European Region.
Angela Merkel said, she fully supports it.
Recent studies have estimated that the heatwave probability has increased for 31 European cities (European Union capitals plus London, Moscow, Oslo and Zurich), and found that all the investigated European metropolitan areas will be more vulnerable to extreme heat in the coming decades.
The COVID-19 pandemic is posing a huge challenge to Germany.
It is procuring and transporting protective equipment and medicines and helping to set up and operate mobile infection testing units.
In China, as schools, workplaces, shopping centres and restaurants reopen their doors, we all – employers, staff, contractors, parents, children – have a key role to play in fighting COVID-19.
Slowing down the rate of infection.
Let us share relevant experiences in whole-of-society, and community approaches to care.
Commitment from the highest levels of government, across every section of our society is needed.
The events organized this week at national and European level offer an important platform as countries move towards transition.
It is now four long weeks since we last had the opportunity to update you on the situation across the WHO European Region.
“We’ve always known that our job, as nurses, carries some risk with it.
It further highlights the need to:
The other measures concerning contact restrictions will remain in place until at least 3 May 2020.
Statement – Transition to a ‘new normal’ during the COVID-19 pandemic must be guided by public health principles
Relevant European Commissioners also participate in meetings.
That is why, she continued, it was possible to discuss and agree on further easing of restrictions.
The hotline employs medical and health experts.
The SHE Facebook page is an important platform for finding new inspiration from schools all over the Region.
Over 95% of these deaths occurred in those older than 60 years.
Emergency fatigue threatens the precious gains we have made against this virus.
In addition to temporary recommendations to China to continue its robust response, the WHO Director-General issued temporary recommendations under the IHR (2005).
The maximum guarantee that guarantee banks can issue is being doubled to 2.5 million euros.
Watch, learn and listen to each other – particularly the countries that are already taking steps to ease restrictions and transition to a next phase of response.
Dr Kluge also presented his vision for health in the WHO European Region: united action for better health, with a specific focus on countries, to the health workers of tomorrow at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Medicine.
I am extremely grateful to the independent European Strategic Advisory Group on COVID-19 for their feedback and input last Tuesday and to the Directors General for Health in the Region for their comments and input yesterday.
Today, we have 28 African countries that have reported cases.
In 2014, when the war started, it became much worse.
What we have to contend with, according to the particularities of our Region, is that social distancing in some contexts in Africa may be quite a challenge.
One of the most important contributions we can make to slowing down transmission of COVID-19 and keeping ourselves and our communities safe is to wash our hands.
Explaining that today China had not reported any new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19, he noted: “This is an epidemic that can be pushed back.”
In order to ensure their protection, microenterprises have the right to withhold performance of all essential continuing obligations that are necessary to maintain their businesses.
Since then, neighbouring countries and elsewhere around the globe have heightened their surveillance to quickly diagnose potential new cases of the virus linked to this outbreak.
WHO releases guidelines to help European countries maintain essential health services during the COVID 19 pandemic
The questions discussed included what swift and comprehensive response the international community can identify to the challenges posed by COVID-19, and what form specific solutions for the worst hit emerging economies and developing countries could take.
As restrictions are eased, it is important for countries to recognize that it may be necessary to reintroduce physical distancing measures to manage outbreaks.
The measures agreed are worth a total of 130 billion euros.
Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, Germany has taken in seriously ill patients from other EU countries for treatment.
We know that with aggressive action, it is possible to push this virus back.
Some of our Member States are in scenario 2 and 3, and many are in 3 and 4. The basic actions in each scenario are the same, but the emphasis changes depending on which transmission scenario a country is in.
I also remotely teach nursing at a college affiliated with Odesa Law Academy.
The COVID-19 pandemic is a stark reminder that infectious diseases know no borders.
It is crucial that we all abide by the IHR principles of international cooperation, transparency and solidarity.
Playgrounds are to be reopened subject to some specific conditions.
Furthermore, countries stressed the need to ensure that other essential health services, such as those for noncommunicable diseases and vaccination, are not neglected during the pandemic response.
It hits those who are most at risk, because they live in war zones or refugee camps, or in states whose health systems are buckling under the onslaught of the pandemic," said Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Heiko Maas.
Greater testing availability, intensive care unit capacity and preventive distancing measures have resulted in Spain being able to carefully ease restrictions.
At present, the chatbot content is available in English, Greek, Italian, Kazakh, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are holding this press briefing in an empty UN City building while staff work remotely as a social distancing measure in response to COVID-19.
Here too, the most important thing is to keep your distance: when entering and leaving public transport and when choosing your seat.
We have carried out a baseline risk assessment of the readiness of our countries, understanding that the starting point is relatively weak health systems, and that includes weak preparedness to address and operate in public health emergencies in general.
WHO/Europe has published key considerations for the gradual easing of the lockdown restrictions introduced by many countries in response to the spread of COVID-19 across the European Region.
In particular, older people and people with underlying health problems in particular have a higher risk of suffering severe symptoms when infected with COVID-19.
Not only is this the region with the highest alcohol intake and the highest prevalence of drinkers in the population, but it is also the region with the highest prevalence of alcohol use disorders in the population and the highest share of deaths caused by alcohol, among all deaths.
Moreover, correctional facilities may amplify and enhance COVID-19 transmission beyond their walls.
In the past 10 days, the number of cases reported in Europe has nearly doubled to close to 1 million.
The outbreak was brought under control with the help of regular testing and by isolating infected individuals and their contacts.
Paradoxically, these surveys have also shown that high-risk groups (aged 60+) feel less likely to contract the new coronavirus – so this is an area where we need further insights,” explained Professor Cornelia Betsch from the University of Erfurt.
National authorities are providing food, medical supplies and financial assistance to vulnerable people and children in Kyrgyzstan.
WHO and its partners have prepared a set of COVID-specific materials to inform and guide countries and the public in relation to these levels of mental health and psychosocial support, including briefings and accompanying infographics on social stigma as well as needs for the general population, health workers, those in long-term care and others.
Objective 1 ► Protecting health and safeguarding the effectiveness of our healthcare system.
As you will hear from the Western Pacific and African Region, and from Denmark shortly, different containment and mitigation strategies are being applied so that fewer new cases arise over a longer period.
For COVID-19, the hotline serves three critical purposes:
"We must not allow the coronavirus crisis to become an educational crisis," said Federal Education Minister Anja Karliczek.
Vulnerable people might need assistance on hot days, and if anyone you know is at risk, help them to get advice and support while respecting physical distancing recommendations.
The number of new infections reported within a single day reached its peak on 2 April (+6536).
The expanded hub teams will enhance the work being done by national authorities at country level and provide surge support where needed.
For example, guards were asked to stop having coffee breaks together and told to operate only in a strictly delimited area of the facility”, said Dr Giuliani.
Its hospitals have used the time since the start of the outbreak of the virus to prepare for increasing numbers of infections.
These sessions also enable WHO to listen to the real concerns of youth in the Region.
Another 1.3 billion euros will go to global health projects, in particular to support Gavi the Vaccine Alliance and to improve health systems in many countries of the global South.
Dr Madeyski pointed out that his team included 2 interpreters, provided by WHO Kyrgyzstan, who both had medical backgrounds, making it much easier to discuss key technical concepts. Nevertheless, he stressed that being able to deliver on-the-job training was crucial, highlighting the need to demonstrate some techniques in person.
Good hand hygiene protects you and those around you.
Beyond the figures, only a fraction of cases is ever reported.
Another recommendation from the mission is to capitalize on the country’s transparent information-sharing and academic and research capacity, to build understanding of the virus and its behaviour, as well as confirm the effectiveness of response measures.
WHO experts are providing support in the areas of clinical management, infection prevention and control, surveillance and risk communication.
Easing for children and elderly people
We are working hard with our Member States to ensure that they are ready for COVID-19, preparing for the arrival of cases and possible localized spread.
Once again infection chains can be traced to some extent, and broken with the help of testing and quarantine measures.
It covers international coordination and operational support, scaling up country readiness and response operations, and accelerating priority research and innovation.
Never underestimate us nurses.
These publications highlight the activities performed by intercultural mediators in health care.
Further materials under development by WHO and its partners include the production of a story-book for 4-10-year-olds and versions of WHO tools such as ‘Psychological First Aid’ and ‘Problem Management Plus’ that can be delivered remotely via digital platforms.
This year’s World Food Safety Day falls in the middle of the COVID-19 crisis.
These figures also illustrate that the situation across our highly diverse Region is not uniform.
When package deals are cancelled, the organisers may offer customers vouchers rather than reimbursing the cost of the holiday, on a voluntary basis.
At the same time, he warned that it must be stated quite clearly that any holiday at any destination will involve restrictions – on beaches, in restaurants and in city centres.Earlier in the day the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs attended a video conference with his European counterparts from Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Croatia, Malta, Austria, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain.
This is why the fund must help all states in Europe to respond appropriately.
The Federal Government has already set aside around eight billion euros to support hospitals and other medical facilities.
According to the EU’s Spring Economic Forecast, and I quote, “GDP is forecast to contract by about 7½ % this year, far deeper than during the global financial crisis in 2009, and to rebound by only 6% in 2021.
Students attending schools which are part of the network have developed narratives about the coronavirus and emphasize the importance of hygiene and healthy lifestyles.
It is essential for countries to work together to share experiences and updates, to develop an agile and responsive approach, where each region and country’s guidance and advice can be quickly updated as understanding of the virus in the local context grows.
Reduction in electricity costs: As of 2021 the Renewable Energies Act levy on electricity is to be reduced through subsidies from the national budget.
Responses need to be tailored carefully to the local context, and we must be agile in our actions.
Masks and gloves were distributed to all the staff working in the facility”.
Due to climate change, the potential for hazardous exposure to extreme heat has been worsening in the last decades, and will continue to worsen in the Region in the future.
This involves measures to rapidly reconfigure and repurpose the whole health sector while taking into account worst-case scenarios.
Mistrust, resistance to measures, a disregard for the behavioural changes we have all made to limit COVID-19, will send us down the road none of us want to take.
Good morning, good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today.
Should a large number of customers insist on immediate repayment, they might push the organiser into insolvency, meaning that it might not be possible to enforce their entitlement to reimbursement.
So many lives have been lost.
In particular, they protect other people, should the wearer be infected with the coronavirus.
Once these strategies have been devised it is then the responsibility of politicians to decide when to act.
Although all children are perceptive to change, young children may find the changes that have taken place difficult to understand, and both young and older children may express irritability and anger.
Europe is the epicenter of the first pandemic of COVID-19 and every country, with no exceptions, needs to take their boldest actions to stop or slow down the spread of this virus.
First of all, I would like to say that the European Union is one of Africa’s best supporters in our work on development and there is a strong relationship between the European Union and African Union, including quite significant levels of financial resources and technical support to development in different sectors.
The responsible standing conferences of ministers have been mandated to prepare, before the conference on 6 May, prospects and frameworks for the gradual opening of catering and hospitality, and tourism services, as well as additional cultural facilities.
According to the newly published WHO guidance, the global effort to tackle the spread of disease may fail without proper attention to infection control measures within prisons.
Countries across the WHO European Region are utilizing guidance from WHO/Europe to include immunization against vaccine-preventable diseases (VPDs) as an essential health service during the current COVID-19 pandemic.
Through WHO/Europe’s European Programme of Work “United action for better health”, we will strive to accelerate action to reduce health inequities and to strengthen public health leadership at local, regional, national and international levels.
Furthermore, the resolution also raises concern that the pandemic may widen existing health inequalities, disproportionally affecting the most vulnerable populations and countries.
To cushion the impacts on the people, the workforce and private companies
Dr Dina Pfeifer, in charge of clinical management and team lead, highlighted Italy’s commitment, since the beginning, to tackle to the outbreak. “We appreciate the difficulties that the current situation poses and acknowledge the efforts of the Ministry of Health as well as other national and regional authorities to address it.
German financial policy is currently dominated by the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic repercussions of the pandemic.
Let us share and learn from these examples.
My second message is: COVID-19 has affected us all, but not all equally.
HealthBuddy: a new chatbot to engage with communities in Europe and central Asia on COVID-19
Even in countries where reports of violence against children have decreased since COVID-19 response measures were enacted, there is no cause for celebration.
This is something worth fighting and working for, he said.
By 2030 they should account for 65 per cent of Germany’s energy mix.
“During the current COVID-19 pandemic, nurses stand and fight at the frontline, running a high risk of being infected.
The goal is to move away from the general travel warning to country-specific travel information as of 15 June.
We can expect mental health needs to be very significant as people start to rebuild lives and cope with the impact of the disease on their communities and livelihoods.
The newly established Insights Unit at WHO/Europe has developed a tool which:
It is nevertheless in the interests of the people that Germany has one strategy and one goal. Since we have neither a vaccine nor a treatment for the novel coronavirus, it is still a question of slowing the spread so that the health system and hospitals are not overwhelmed and so that every patient can receive the best possible medical care, stressed the Chancellor.
It is also contributing personnel, with more than 17,000 members of the Medical Corps and a further 15,000 soldiers providing support on the ground.
The Polish doctors noted the high level of competence of Kyrgyz health specialists in terms of administrative and practical measures taken to protect health-care workers.
“Rapid, simple and flexible to use, this behavioural insights tool offers countries invaluable information to support and guide their COVID-19 response activities.
Research work on a vaccine for COVID-19, and the production and equitable distribution of a vaccine of this sort for the entire world will now become a main focus of their activities.
On 9 March the news led to riots in numerous prisons all over Italy.
I ask your governments to invest resources, time, and effort into risk communication and community engagement that puts listening on an equal footing with speaking.
Almost 50% of the global burden of COVID-19 cases - over 1.2 million – are in the European Region.
“As the virus is spreading, we are expecting new government supplies of personal protective equipment that are now being produced.
A number of these areas are already being implemented.
“Recommendations highlight the importance of ensuring that the country can cope with a possible resurgence of cases once COVID-19 measures are eased”, says Adrienne Rashford, Team Lead for Emergency Preparedness and Readiness with the Health Emergencies Programme. “Restrictions should be shifted one at a time, allowing time in between to evaluate the impact of shifting each measure”.
The issue of a shortage of protective devices has been of constant concern, but more than that, what needed addressing was the fear of a shortage and the fear of getting infected.
Unprecedented measures to slow and interrupt transmission of COVID-19 are buying us time and reducing pressure on our health systems, but at a significant social and economic cost.
Alcohol is a psychoactive substance that is associated with mental disorders; people at risk or who have an alcohol-use disorder, are particularly vulnerable, especially when in self-isolation.
This outbreak does not distinguish between races or nationalities; nor should we in our response.
"I believe the 4th of May will mark a turning point in our fight against COVID-19, because today the world is coming together," said Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, when she opened the online pledging event she was hosting.
So let’s look more closely at immunization.
Measles affected over 100 000 young and old in this Region last year.
Dr Kasai stated that country responses must be tailored and specific, but must have one common factor: mobilizing the whole of society.
The COVID-19 pandemic is impacting the global population in drastic ways.
3. Acceleration of the Green Deal and digitalisation.
I ask your governments to keep it there.
“Rapid response capacities of the GOARN and EMT initiative are essential operational assets in emergency response operations coordinated by WHO.
This is the 6th time WHO has declared a PHEIC since the International Health Regulations (IHR) came into force in 2005.
Since last week, a team of experts from WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has been on the ground, working together with Italian health specialists to better understand the evolution of the outbreak and identify the most adequate strategy to control and manage it.
This agreement emphasized the need to create stronger health systems, and work on country priority health issues, including noncommunicable diseases and immunization.
They showed us how to reorganize the hospital to increase the number of beds, and how to put on and correctly use personal protective equipment.
On 24 April 2020 the World Health Organization (WHO) launched the historic Global Response Initiative to fight COVID-19, along with other global health actors and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Much of the human connection is lost, which is one of the things that made me fall in love with this profession in the first place.”
But before that, allow me to provide you with an overview of the current situation on COVID-19 in the WHO European Region.
We handled each case with care and precision.
We should do everything within our powers to prevent children becoming victims of this pandemic due to their vulnerability of vaccine-preventable diseases such as measles, diphtheria, mumps and rubella.
Thank you for joining us once again.
Should you wear a cloth mask or not? The most important thing is always to keep your distance.
What we would like to see and promote is a dialogue between the Regions, between the European partners of Africa and between our political leaders, so that the strategies that are being put in place are mutually supportive and synergistic for control in all 3 regions.
Here I would like to applaud the steps taken by the Government of Montenegro to allow entry and exit of WHO staff in response to COVID-19.
They expressed the need for a strong WHO.
That was also something she discussed with the health office staff, she reported.
Prisoners’ committees in each prison helped to spread important health information among the detainees”, added Dr Ranieri.
Alcohol consumption is associated with a range of communicable and noncommunicable diseases and mental health disorders, which can make a person more vulnerable to COVID-19.
In lockdown, women and children are out of society’s sight, but more exposed to perpetrators at home.
The centrally maintained intensive care register of the German Interdisciplinary Association for Intensive Care and Emergency Medicine (DIVI-Intensivregister) provides daily updates on the occupancy of intensive care beds and the number of COVID-19 patients receiving intensive care (www.intensivregister.de).
The European Commission presented its economic recovery plan on 27 May.
The reforms capitalize on the country’s strong points, including full demonstration of the capacity of the nurses and doctors working in PHC facilities, integration at all levels of care, and the electronic health information system Moj Termin.
Russian Federation and Ukraine are heading towards this trajectory.
In 2018, approximately 527 000 children missed their first dose of measles-containing vaccine in the WHO European Region.
Joint WHO and ECDC mission in Italy to support COVID-19 control and prevention efforts
In order to ensure that sufficient funds are available to tackle the crisis, the German Bundestag has already approved spending totalling over 122 billion euros in a supplementary budget.
After visiting a number of health-care facilities in Spain, Dr Aylward remarked that while COVID-19 hospitalizes many over the age of 60, substantial numbers of people in intensive care units and in need of professional care are younger.
To avoid harvest losses, the Federal Government is allowing the controlled entry of a limited number of seasonal workers from abroad.
Now as we approach the Easter weekend in particular it is crucial that we do not let up in our efforts," said Angela Merkel.
Some of the measures that countries may consider adopting are: closures of schools and universities, implementation of remote working policies, minimizing the use of public transport in peak hours and deferment of nonessential travel.
Your experience, difficult as it is, is also invaluable to our understanding of how to tackle the disease.
For this reason, the Federal Government, in coordination with the Länder, regularly evaluates whether the measures adopted are still necessary and proportionate or whether they need to be adapted.
WHO takes the impact of the crisis on people’s mental health very seriously and is monitoring the situation together with national authorities, while providing information and guidance to governments and the public.
Every signal that the virus is being controlled, managed, mitigated is a good signal.
“As countries are developing their approaches to dealing with children being at home, the network of Schools for Health in Europe offers a unique platform to share country experiences, so national school networks can learn from other countries,” said Martin Weber, Programme Manager, Child and Adolescent Health at WHO/Europe.
It is then expected to pick up, assuming the virus is controlled.
The value of health workers is appreciated.
These locations are often the only retailers open, and shopping for essential groceries is the only accepted reason for people to leave their homes.
Following the recommendation to stop exchanging cigarettes and other goods was very difficult, but eventually prisoners understood the importance of this and other measures.
After taking on the position of adviser to the Minister of Health, to improve the standing of the nursing and midwifery professions, I initiated the creation and became the lead of a new agency – the Centre for Nursing Development.”
We define resilience as the ability to prepare for, manage (absorb, adapt and transform) and learn from shocks.
All in all the stabilisation measures for Lufthansa are worth nine billion euros.
Statement – During COVID-19 pandemic, violence remains preventable, not inevitable
Now, let me focus briefly on a few other key issues.
Nadiya Labanda: coordinating nurses in Ukraine’s COVID-19 epicentre
Slowly but surely, we are seeing positive signs.
Those who are part of the Federal Voluntary Service can also provide support in other non-profit institutions if their placements give their consent.
To mark the survey’s preliminary results, a new series of stories from the WHO European Region shares experiences of health workers and patients in managing these conditions.
Here, in the European Region, the COVID-19 response plan is benefitting from the input and advocacy of Dr David Nabarro, WHO’s Special Envoy for COVID-19 preparedness and response assigned to our Region.
It is a very demanding activity, given that the average number of calls varies between 40 and 120 calls per phone line.
The final discussion centred around measures being put in place by countries to recover, rebuild and foster resilience to future emergencies and pandemics.
I urge you all to use that valuable resource.
That the customer is entitled to request immediate reimbursement of the sum already paid if the voucher has not been redeemed within the period of validity.
“They have responded well to our campaign.
It will, however, be permitted for members of two households to meet.
Per-child allowance for families: Parents will receive a one-off payment of 300 euros per child.
To this end the federal and state governments will agree on common procedures.
Hospital preparedness and capacity is crucial.
Thank you very much.
European Union should take on a leading role
While a PHEIC has not been declared at this time, WHO is continuing to follow the outbreak in China closely to understand more about it and contain it as early as possible.
In broad terms, while plateauing in western Europe, the gradient of the epi-curve steepens as we look east.
The COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan, issued on 25 March 2020, shows a clear commitment to helping some of the most vulnerable communities during the COVID-19 outbreak, including refugee and migrant communities.
This is the mantra I preached before and I am preaching still”.
The Petersberg Climate Dialogue was launched in 2010 in response to a proposal of Chancellor Angela Merkel.
We have very high levels of malnutrition among children under 5 in African countries.
Given the vagaries of current developments, however, forecasts must be treated with caution.
In a broader context, Italy can be a “knowledge-generating platform” on COVID-19 within the scientific community.
Reports of increased violence and cries for help to police and other mainstream services go beyond society’s preconceived notions of what constitutes violence.
“WHO stands by the Government of Italy in its efforts and commitment to mitigate this outbreak and manage the cases effectively.
Supporting Serbia to strengthen health systems and improve health
Countries in the Eastern part of the Region (The Russian Federation, Turkey, Ukraine, Uzbekistan and Belarus) have seen increases in the rate of new cases over the past week.
Every country is mapping out its route to a new normal, and every country is at a different place.
The health system can cope with the number of new infections at the level now reached.
“The doctors we met always appreciated the fact that we went with them to see patients and stand at their bedsides.
Vaccination is a right and a responsibility, and it is up to all of us to ensure that we are protected together.
The police have also been made more aware of the issue.
Good morning your Excellencies, and thank you for joining us for this briefing today.We should begin in sending our thoughts and best wishes to everyone – people, families, businesses – who are working together to manage and adapt to COVID-19 in their communities, and in particular those – in your countries and further afield – who are being directly impacted by the virus.
2019-nCoV outbreak: first cases confirmed in Europe
Even when far-reaching contact restrictions are in place, people need to get to work and go shopping.
As an interim step along the way, the Chancellor welcomed the European Commission’s target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union by 50-55 per cent of the 1990 levels by 2030.
However, all should work to:
That team must be qualified, trained and bring equipment and supplies to deliver an effective response rather than imposing a burden on the national system.
“There are many challenges in terms of logistics to properly identify, test and isolate a suspected COVID-19 patient,” said Director Schwaber. “Until you force yourself into a scenario simulating such a patient, you don’t necessarily come up with all the pitfalls in managing them safely – taking into account both their safety as well as that of those around them.
A large-scale study based on 72 000 confirmed cases in China showed that more than 80% of cases have mild symptoms, with 14% considered serious and 5% considered critical.
As 1 of my 4 flagship areas, prioritizing immunization is central to WHO/Europe’s vision for health in the new European Programme of Work.
Any measures introduced should, however, be effective, and offer clear benefits, said the Federal Minister of the Interior.
Follow the link to access the web survey and respond by 30 May 2020.
20 countries are using this tool within our Region and at least 20 outside it.
The team recommended continuing to follow basic preventative measures, ensuring proper airflow in patients’ rooms, following hygiene requirements and practicing social distancing.
The programme is worth 550 million euros, with the funds to be used to procure mobile devices for schoolchildren.
As cases of COVID-19 continue to rise in countries across the Region, health systems are facing enormous pressure to both manage COVID-19 patients and maintain essential services.
WHO advises against any travel or trade restrictions on China based on the current information available on this event.
The Federation has put in place the financial and legal conditions to ensure that an increasing number of COVID-19 patients requiring in-patient treatment can receive the best possible care.
Polish medics bring Italian COVID-19 experience to Kyrgyzstan with WHO support
In order to avoid short-term bottlenecks, the Federal Government is focusing on increased imports and heightened domestic production by granting purchase guarantees, as well as on cooperating with companies with a track record of operating in international markets.
During a visit to a primary health care centre, Savski Venac, Dr Kluge had the opportunity to speak with health workers about their work providing care in the community, including tackling antimicrobial resistance, countering vaccine hesitancy and helping detect any potential cases of COVID-19.
Schools are to reopen for students before the summer holidays, people in hospitals and care home are to be allowed visitors again – the federal and state governments have decided on further easing of the measures to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.
More people infected with 2019-nCoV have since been identified in China, as well as imported cases in other countries.
That is important in order to trace the virus.
“It’s what makes us stand out from other webinar providers,” Dr Pfeifer explains.
Wherever possible, regions and provinces have maintained childhood immunization as part of the essential health services, prioritizing primary vaccine doses, while ensuring strict infection prevention and control measures, such as time slots and physical distancing in waiting rooms.
Germany and France would like to see Europe stand together and "to come out of this crisis together in an even greater spirit of solidarity," said Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Consideration should be given to ensuring that the risk of virus spread is minimized, especially in high-vulnerability settings such as long-term care facilities.
The Bundeswehr is supporting the Länder and municipalities in their efforts to combat the pandemic, for example by bolstering public healthcare at Bundeswehr hospitals.
So far, Italy has recorded the sharpest increase in cases in the WHO European Region, with evidence of local transmission.
The risk of introducing COVID-19 into prisons or other places of detention varies from country to country.
In this situation, every European is Asian, and every Asian is European.
“Prevention saves lives, and it requires good governance to make the transition from response to resilience,” highlighted Ms Mami Mizutori, Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction. “Now is the time to ensure that we recover in a resilient way and take this opportunity to improve prevention across the Region and boost international cooperation.”
In this context, the Standing Committee:
In other branches too, prospects must be offered, said Angela Merkel.
This includes:
I feel a particular sense of responsibility towards those who are starting their career at this time; whenever possible, I ensure they are either located in non-COVID-19 dedicated structures or are working next to a more experienced nurse.
The WHO expert team worked with the health authorities to enhance key areas of work: surveillance and laboratory testing, risk communication, infection prevention and control, patient care, access to essential medicines and minimization of impact on the health care system, including consideration of social distancing measures.
The Federal Government is supporting agricultural enterprises with a guarantee programme to safeguard liquidity protection loans, which are paid out via the Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank (central refinancing institution for agriculture and the food industry).
It may yet become one”.
As I have said before – this virus is unforgiving – we must remain vigilant, persevere and be patient, ready to ramp-up measures as and when needed.
Discussions are to look at the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the European Treaties that make it possible to take special steps in the case of natural disaster, and the proposal of the European Commission for European short-time work allowance.
Health professionals are the cornerstone of effective case detection and management, and they should be engaged and trained to identify potential cases, treat them, ensure infection prevention and control measures are in place in health-care settings and provide public health advice.
The WHO Country Office in Kyrgyzstan coordinated the field visit with the government, including the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Funding to support the expansion of intensive care has been safeguarded and hospitals have been assisted in the procurement of ventilators.
In this situation, members of the public – of all ages and backgrounds – are making an invaluable contribution to dealing with the impact of the pandemic through a variety of private and voluntary initiatives.
We must recognize:
To date, around 5000 citizens of EU member states and 1000 third country nationals have been able to return to their home countries with the support of the Federal Government.
The European Commission has the right of initiative.
WHO Regional Director for Europe, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, reiterated the severity of the global situation: "The world is facing the greatest public health challenge of modern times.
Speaking to ambassadors, Dr Nabarro stressed 5 priorities as countries respond to COVID-19: 1) ensuring all societies are COVID-ready and able to identify and quickly isolate those with the disease; 2) looking after health systems, which are coming under increasing strain from the pandemic; 3) supporting governments in helping them manage the lockdown; 4) ensuring businesses can respond to market failures, while also producing vital equipment where necessary; and 5) ensuring solidarity within and between nations in their response to the pandemic.
Resources are critical to sustain our efforts so that no one is left behind, nor at the sidelines.
I have a lot of responsibility and difficult tasks, but it really allows me to show my skills.“As nurse-anaesthetist, my working day starts at 8 in the morning when we meet as a team and receive the daily schedule of surgeries.
COVID-19 is a test of solidarity that we simply cannot afford to fail.
Both personally and professionally, we are experiencing unprecedented times.
The contact restrictions will remain in place until 5 June.
Angela Merkel gave the example of health offices receiving support from the Bundeswehr and the overarching "excellent overview of available intensive care beds across Germany".
The big opportunity lies in the “granularity” of the insights and the interventions at a community level among families and those considered at-risk or vulnerable, in ways that are culturally appropriate and easily accessible.“This initiative has helped increase knowledge on COVID-19 for a lot of youth across the Region,” reports Lahiru. “It has helped us all to actively play a part in the fight against misinformation on COVID-19.”
Putting countries at the centre is a vital part of the Regional Director’s vision for health in the Region: united action for better health.
In response to the emergency of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), WHO is working closely with a network of designated laboratories in the WHO European Region and other WHO regions to ensure that every country has the capacity and resources required to quickly test, report and respond to any suspected cases of the disease.
It was also decided that the emergency cover provided by nurseries will be extended.
This week, as the network reaches a milestone and the world is ravaged by the COVID-19 pandemic, we reflect on the fact that “no single country or organization alone can protect people’s health in emergencies,” as Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe said. “For 2 decades European GOARN partners have been deployed in major response operations, tracking potential disease outbreaks and making our Region and the world a safer place.
On 22 April 2020, 2237 new infections were reported.
The female pharmacists with children and those who were pregnant didn’t work but were paid for the duration of the curfew.
Physical activity contributes to both our physical and mental health.
People are ‘adopting’ families of health-care workers, who work long shifts and find comfort in knowing someone is taking care of their loved ones.
“COVID-19 is now being characterized by WHO as a pandemic.
These laboratories are located in France, Germany, the Netherlands, the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom.
These have been tough but correct decisions.
The state premiers of the eastern federal states generally meet twice a year.
Some countries have changed their testing strategies over the course of the past few weeks and are capturing more cases in their surveillance system – for example, as Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.
WHO/Europe can support countries with implementation, please contact Katrine Habersaat (habersaatk@who.int) or Martha Scherzer (scherzerm@who.int) for more information.
Statement – Recovery must lead to a different economy, an economy of well-being
There is no single solution.
To enhance clinical governance, the country is also planning to develop, collect and analyse new quality metrics for maternal and newborn health, launch quality improvement initiatives, and facilitate shared learning within and between the networks of facilities.
This is a big challenge for all countries, I know, but one that we must tackle together so that no one is left behind.”
The outbreak is placing an overwhelming burden on health systems and authorities to respond with effective and appropriate interventions, policies and messages.
Ten of sixteen federal states have reported cases of coronavirus infections.
Dr Moeti also explained that the existing social conditions and economic status of many countries in the Region place added stresses on them.
We learn better, together.
The Federal Government is also providing support to partner countries to the tune of 21 million euros within the context of bilateral development cooperation to help fight the pandemic and to mitigate its economic and social impact.
We are working with partners and emergency medical teams to scale up capacity to respond.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has consulted with the premiers of the sixteen federal states about the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
I applaud their invaluable contribution.”
The past month of restrictive measures and lockdowns have understandably bred stress and anxiety.
Expertise, knowledge, emergency response teams, vital supplies, commitment to WHO and other partner initiatives, and funding have all flowed across the Region in an incredible show of unity and strength.
It is thus very important for the German government not to lose sight of any of the affected individuals if at all possible.
This is on condition that there are prospects of overcoming the illiquidity.
While it is too early to have robust, Region-wide data, WHO is aware of a growing number of reports in diverse settings and contexts that suggest a significant increase of interpersonal violence in homes across the Region.
Let me repeat:
This dramatic increase in cases presents numerous challenges to even the most sophisticated and advanced health systems.
The EU heads of state and government approved the package of measures agreed two weeks ago by the EU finance ministers.
There is also scope to expand the content of the webinars to include clinical reviews of individual cases. “Sometimes I get a question and I sense that it’s being asked because the doctor has a particular patient in mind,” says Dr Pfeifer. “It gives you an idea of the frustration these physicians feel at not being able to do more.”
Dr Aylward recently returned from Spain, where he led a mission to learn from the rapid outbreak of COVID-19 in the country and help advise both national and international responses.
The article highlights the following areas of concern:
In addition to this, there are measures coordinated by the Länder with the Federation, and over 50 measures have been put in place at European level.
I studied pharmacology at the Almaty Medical Institute in Kazakhstan and I have been working as a pharmacy manager for 33 years.
Limited access to fresh foods may lead to an increased consumption of highly processed foods, which tend to be high in fats, sugars and salt.
30th anniversary of German reunification
The Fund can begin to operate as soon as the European Commission has given its approval.
On 25–26 February 2020, Infection Prevention and Control Focal Points and experts from 15 Member States took part in a 2-day meeting in Copenhagen, the second best practices meeting on the implementation of the core components of IPC programmes.
It is also providing an additional 140 million euros to support the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) vaccine initiative and 600 million euros to support GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance.
I have to do my job, and I know I can make a difference in my patients’ lives.
Of the 10 countries across the globe who have reported the highest number of new cases in the past 24 hours, 6 are in the European Region.
WHO/Europe and UNFPA collected data which established that there were already 60 polymerase chain reaction systems for rapid detection of different viruses spread out across the country which could potentially be used to test for COVID-19.
WHO is the authority responsible for public health within the United Nations system.
This is particularly important this year due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak compounding issues caused by extended periods of hot weather, while many people, including groups particularly vulnerable to both the infection and heat, might be advised or required to remain at home as potential lockdowns are in place.
The value of this is about 300 million euros.
With its Green Deal, the European Union is on the right path.
Turkish celebrities join UN and WHO to help convey key COVID-19 messages
Our anxiety and fears should be acknowledged and not be ignored, but better understood and addressed by individuals, communities and governments,” Dr Hans Kluge noted.
This collaboration has facilitated rapid action and an effective transition from preparedness to active readiness for importation of the COVID-19 virus.
Security officers and health care workers created united work groups in every prison. “Issues such as supply shortages, alternative incarceration measures or transfers between prisons are now discussed together by the police and health staff with one common approach.
The government is thus helping ensure that total national investment in 2020 rises by 4.8 per cent to a new record of 89.6 billion euros.
First WHO/Europe virtual mission provides crucial assistance to Armenia on the shifting of COVID-19 measures
Here we can draw on the remarkable powers of strength, resilience and cooperation that we as humans fortunately possess.
Many of the questions focused on specific population groups, including children and older people.
The aim is to move closer to a coordinated international response by learning from each other’s experiences.
At present, the WHO European Region accounts for 46% of cases and 63% of deaths of COVID-19 globally, with 1 408 266 confirmed cases and 129 344 people who have now lost their lives to the virus.
Dr Roberto Ranieri points out that, overall, the measures would not have been a success without the detainees’ help.
Ahmed Ahmed, a Syrian refugee and nurse working in a migrant health centre in Izmir, Turkey, is proud to be part of a team united by the common goal of delivering health care during the pandemic.
To those who remain in hospitals in all your countries, I hope every day brings them closer to a full and speedy recovery.
Nutrition is not the only factor essential for staying healthy during self-quarantine.
The Recovery Fund must be put "on a secure legal footing" and "also reflect the budgetary autonomy of the various national parliaments," said Angela Merkel.
This required the Government to adjust its response and introduce strict lockdown measures, which helped the country to slow the spread of the disease and gain time to reorganize its health system.
Although the repurposed machines were not used for Covid-19 testing in the end, the exercise helped the authorities in Uzbekistan better assess their options and avoid potentially expensive mistakes.
To support Member States in effective preparedness, prevention and control of COVID-19 in prisons and other places of detention, WHO has developed a checklist to help policy-makers and prison administrators evaluate their level of preparedness for the disease.
Police officers were preoccupied mainly with security issues, while health care workers viewed prisoners as regular patients.
Due to the exceptional situation in the labour market, unemployment benefits pursuant to Book Three of the Social Code are being extended by three months for those whose entitlement would end between 1 May and 31 December 2020.
They discussed how to gradually return to freedom of movement within the EU and to tourism this summer. Procedures, said Heiko Maas, must be in line with infection trends, meaning that they cannot be identical for every country – at national or regional level.
The Director-General will reconvene the Emergency Committee within three months or earlier if necessary.
“As GCNO, I am responsible for 70 000 nurses in the country and provide the government with a detailed overview of the state of nursing.
Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Peter Altmaier explained that it is absolutely essential that Lufthansa continue to operate in Germany.
The economic and social impacts of the pandemic can be felt in all member states, with some regions and sectors particularly hard hit.
"It acknowledges the scope and size of the economic challenge that Europe faces."
The approximately 540 multigenerational homes funded by the Federal Government will receive additional funds, among other things to expand neighbourhood assistance.
Regarding older people and also those with underlying health conditions, having been identified as more vulnerable to COVID-19, and to be told that you are very vulnerable, can be extremely frightening and very fear-inducing.
A team of WHO experts is currently in Azerbaijan, working with the national response committee to develop a 3–6-month national preparedness and response plan for COVID-19.
A nation-wide strategy and technical plans in key areas of work – surveillance, clinical management, infection prevention and control, and risk communication – are instrumental to structure the ongoing response.
WHO/Europe has released a new behavioural insights tool for national and local authorities developing and coordinating interventions, policies and messages for the COVID-19 response.
Following this call, WHO published its “Manifesto for a healthy recovery from COVID-19”.
Reconfiguring health systems vital to tackling COVID-19
The funds will not be used to finance general state spending.
During the 5-day mission on 9–13 March, the team is coordinating with the Ministry of Health and the Agency for Health Care Management (TABIB), and visiting national and regional hospitals, Food Safety Agency laboratories, the Azerbaijan Medical University and points of entry.
The funds will be distributed via the Länder.
Investment at record level
Setting up a hotline for emergency situations was part of Romania’s emergency risk communications plan, also developed with assistance from WHO/Europe for emergency preparedness.
The measures and developments will be communicated transparently and adapted to the current situation in order to ensure the greatest possible acceptance by all those who are affected.
However, we do not know at this point how the outbreak will evolve.
"This always presupposes, of course, that the course of the infection permits these steps," underlined the Chancellor.
It is also important "that they tell us when they need more support".
WHO will continue to monitor the situation closely.
Last week we marked European Immunization Week.
Food and nutrition during self-quarantine: what to choose and how to eat healthily
This shall not affect decisions already taken by individual federal states.
Over the past two months, WHO/Europe has organized around 60 COVID-19 related missions to countries in the Region, delivering technical guidance on a range of issues including laboratory support, disease surveillance, operational planning, and hospital preparedness.
The frequency, intensity and duration of heatwaves is increasing, with a significant intensifying trend in the Region, which is of concern for public health.
Federal Finance Minister Olaf Scholz spoke of "three strong responses" to the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic.
In particular, the WHO Regional Office is planning to deploy a senior WHO advisor to work with the central authorities in Rome and establish a field emergency team based in the WHO Venice Office to facilitate liaison with the regions. “We are prioritizing our support to Italy given the current evolution of the outbreak and are ready to scale up our involvement as needed,” he concluded.
The European Commission – not least at the instigation of the Federal Government – has adopted a new approval framework for the majority of these support measures, on the basis of which many of the business subsidies have already been approved quickly and unbureaucratically.
Dr Giuliani and Dr Ranieri were involved in reviewing the document before it was published.
Critical to find and treat COVID-19 patients early, WHO mission to Azerbaijan recommends
First, there were servicemen and civilians wounded during fighting and shelling; then, we also had many patients injured by landmine explosions.
Responses must be tailored carefully to the local context.
We talk a lot about numbers and statistics, but we must not for a moment forget the human side, the women and children who are living this reality day in and day out.
“We realized that we, as a group, could do more,” explains Lahiru, “So this initiative evolved beyond us just receiving information from WHO, to actively participating in rumour monitoring and social media engagement.”
Designated hospitals in Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Montenegro, the Republic of Moldova, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have taken advantage of the tool and the accompanying technical support from WHO/Europe.
The Recovery Fund is not to be a permanent instrument, but is only to be used for a limited period of time.
Emphasizing the impact of such hospitalizations on governments, Dr Aylward urged them to understand the challenges, particularly the demand for ventilators and beds in intensive care units around the world.
It is crucially important that the health offices work well.
It is important for policy-makers to review their health systems regularly, to assess their resilience and address weaknesses.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org/eca.
We can all take extra steps to keep those people healthy.
Once China enters a recovery phase, there will be a range of longer term health priorities for China.
If customers have already received vouchers rather than an immediate reimbursement for travel booked prior to 8 March 2020, which could not take place as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, before this legislation comes into effect, these vouchers are to be modified and brought into line with the provisions of the new legislation.
This system allows prison health workers to freely exchange information about outbreaks with their colleagues. “In our case we were in close contact with specialists from Milan hospitals and we really benefited from their expertise”, explained Dr Ranieri.
We have observed a raft of measures that are being put in place that are going to have an impact on the movement of people and of supplies and goods, including those that are essential for this response.
Opening the briefing, Dr Kluge provided a short overview of the current situation in the WHO European Region.
Many of our countries in Europe are now acting to flatten the epidemic curve and suppress COVID 19 outbreaks.
In line with strategies to preserve clinical care capacity for COVID-19 patients and as part of readiness and response actions, countries facing community transmission of the virus appear to have sought to limit facility-based care that was nonessential or that could be reprioritized.
WHO stands ready to support countries to establish integrated, person-centred long-term care systems.
“No one is refusing to work, despite the danger they put themselves in – in fact, we received more than 12 000 applications from student volunteers, who want to be part of the efforts.
The Robert Koch Institute now rates the risk for people in Germany as "moderate".
It is still too early to lift the contact restrictions if we are to prevent the healthcare system from being overburdened in the long term, in the interests of the entire population.
These plans aim to prevent, react to and contain heat-related risks to health, and they should include measures for long-term prevention, medium-term preparation and short-term emergency measures.
Recipients of grants from the German Government (BAföG) will continue to receive their education grants even if teaching at schools and universities is suspended.
It is my hope for the future, that we midwives will be increasingly recognized for our contribution and given more chances to express ourselves and abilities further, allowing us to work to our full potential.”
Countries should primarily test as much as possible, while also isolating patients with confirmed COVID-19 and tracing and quarantining their contacts.
The package is to stimulate consumer spending, while also launching structural changes that will carry on well into the decade.
Should there be a sudden new spike in infections, it was agreed that an "emergency mechanism" will kick in. If a district or urban municipality records more than 50 new cases of infection cumulatively per 100,000 inhabitants over a seven-day period, new restrictions will be imposed.
Objective 3 ► Overcoming the pandemic through international cooperation.
When a PHEIC is declared, the Director-General issues temporary recommendations under the IHR (2005), including obligations for countries to provide sufficient public health rationale and justification to WHO about any additional measures beyond what WHO recommends.
The PHEIC also enhances global coordination, cooperation and solidarity.
When considering this, the parties carefully weigh up what steps effectively prevent the spread of the virus on the one hand and the social and economic costs of each on the other.
“The information we are receiving from other regions is heartening.
It is over 3 months since the novel coronavirus gained a foothold in our Region, over 2 months since Europe first documented community transmission, and just over 1 month since we observed the virus move east across the European Region.
This is a two-yearly agreement on cooperation between WHO/Europe and a Member State to guide cooperation.
For the first time, the World Health Assembly was held in a virtual capacity due to the COVID-19 pandemic affecting countries around the world.
They also play a vital role in our struggle against the coronavirus.
"And that is why we have taken individual decisions today, but in the coming week we will again put together a further-reaching package," announced the Chancellor.
To monitor the spread of COVID-19, I keep close contact with the head nurses from all 11 districts in the province, over the phone and online.
Ultimately, the behaviour of each of us will determine the behaviour of the virus.
However, rape within marriage is not explicitly criminalized in the revised version of the criminal code, and Bulgaria has one of the lowest reporting rates of violence against women and children in the European Union.
The COVID-19 pandemic was the overriding issue on the agenda when Chancellor Angela Merkel met with the state premiers of the eastern länder or federal states.
This is intended to create an incentive to use short-time work more for further training.
The Federation has therefore introduced regulations at short notice allowing providers of social services to receive monthly subsidies from their funding organisations, such as the Federal Employment Agency or their pension insurance fund.
Timely action is fundamental for early containment and France’s fast notification to WHO and rapid public communication is an example of that.
The sooner people are identified, the fewer people are at risk.
In response, health-care workers in Spain have worked tirelessly under difficult circumstances to treat patients.
This is something that is very concerning.
Thank you for inviting me to say a few words to you today.
But physical distancing, lockdowns and other measures to slow down and stop transmission are affecting lives and livelihoods.
I started my career working as a junior nurse at the traumatology unit of a Luhansk hospital.
The impact and appropriateness of the chosen options for immunization services should be monitored and periodically reassessed as the COVID-19 situation evolves.
In order to prevent infections in pharmacies, the branches in question are being remunerated for supplying medicines via courier services.
At the country level, our WHO representatives are working hand in hand with resident coordinators and the whole United Nations country team to mitigate, to the extent possible, the negative social, economic and development consequences of the outbreak.
My thoughts and deepest sympathy are with the families and loved ones of those we have lost.
And of course, linked to ending the lockdown is the question of a second wave of the virus: Is it really inevitable?
Tragically, 129,344 people in Europe have now lost their lives.
Given that Green Line is not a medical emergency number, citizens are instructed to call 112 for any health emergencies.
We cannot permit ourselves to believe we are secure and safe.
They rely on the choices you make.
The mental and social impacts of this pandemic are likely to be felt for months and years, particularly because of the related economic impacts.
This will be a significant help not least for the cultural sector and those who work in it.
Social networks are disrupted, and insecurity and financial strains with jobs in jeopardy.
In addition, hospitals are being relieved by postponing scheduled operations and activating personnel resources trained for deployment in intensive care units.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest thanks to you and your governments for the solidarity you have shown to other countries and to WHO in difficult times.
He urged countries to continue to implement a containment strategy while accelerating their efforts to control the disease.
I began my initial studies at a medical college in Chernivtsi, but I knew I wanted to pursue further studies.
The transition out of lockdown is set to be a complex and uncertain phase.
At the end of the day, 7.4 billion euros came together in pledges for the Global Response Initiative of the World Health Organization and other partners.
The organizations will work side by side to ensure that preparedness, prevention and public health response measures to COVID-19 reach refugees, asylum seekers, internally displaced people and those who are stateless.
Everyone in society has a role to play: not to be infected yourself, and if you are infected, to protect others, especially the elderly and people with underlying medical conditions.
This fluid approach is known as bidirectionality.
Their advanced age, underlying health conditions, cognitive challenges in understanding and following health and hygiene advice due to intellectual disability or dementia, for example, are all factors that put them at greater risk.
Timely detection of a contagious pathogen is vital to controlling its spread.
Statement – Invest in the overlooked and unsung: build sustainable people-centred long-term care in the wake of COVID-19
Reported data showed that influenza activity had decreased substantially.
Understandably, as the weeks pass, people and politicians alike are eager to reopen businesses and return to workplaces.
In SHE network schools, teachers are looking for inspiration to adapt their teaching materials to this new context and develop materials about health and well-being to improve health literacy.
However, the greatest challenges remain in infection prevention and control and in critical care provision.
Cross-border travel has been severely restricted in order to stem the spread of COVID-19 across borders.
Two decades tackling global health emergencies together: WHO partner GOARN turns 20
“We have to humbly acknowledge that COVID-19 is a fast-evolving situation.
At the earliest opportunity, countries should reinvigorate and resume services to close any immunity gaps and prevent occurrence of any outbreaks of VPDs.
“When I returned home, I was physically and emotionally drained, and all I wanted was a hug from my mother – but of course, that was not possible.
Swift action is essential and each day can make a difference.
We plan to meet authorities, experts and partners, and work together to understand the risks, the situation on the ground, and to develop the response mechanisms required to protect the Tajik people.
The issue facing each and every one of us is how we manage and react to stressful situations unfolding so rapidly in our lives and communities.
“This involves much planning, the ability to foresee the needs that will arise and setting up what is required to meet those challenges.
Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
WHO/Europe and ECDC collaborate to collect and analyse influenza surveillance data from Member States in the European Region and present these data each week in the Flu News Europe bulletin.
Workplaces should take preventive steps by encouraging physical distancing and providing adequate handwashing facilities.
In a video conference, Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron have discussed the coronavirus pandemic.
"We must act at European level to ensure that we emerge from this crisis stronger and in a good state."
The United Nations Forum on Financing for Development must be a clear signal of solidarity, stressed Chancellor Angela Merkel in a video statement.
It gathered around 50 ministry of health officials, national authorities and clinicians from Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan to learn from the experience of experts in Italy and the Russian Federation in delivering acute care and rehabilitation for heart attacks and strokes.
It explains how to prevent and address a potential disease outbreak and stresses important human rights elements that must be respected in the response to COVID-19 in prisons and other places of detention.
Then I prepare my workplace and start assisting in the operating theatre.
The public must understand the inherent risks as governments, understandably, try to release the steam building up in societies and pressing our respective economies.
Spain, Italy, the UK and France continue to account for 72% of all COVID-19 deaths in the Region.
These programmes are needed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic in order to foster forward-looking technologies such as artificial intelligence and renewable energy.
Martha Scherzer Email: scherzerm@who.int
As of last night, there were over 207,000 cases reported in 166 countries and territories globally.
Without having to enter patients’ rooms, nurses can measure their temperature and other vital signs.”
“I fled Afghanistan almost 21 years ago,” says Qadir Hossaaini, a 38-year-old refugee from Afghanistan who is now working as an interpreter and health mediator.
It is a joint undertaking between the WHO Regional Office for Europe, the European Commission and the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies.
It is imperative that no country lets down its guard.
Together, the ministers and I assessed the situation and their specific needs.
Therefore, we have minimized opportunities for social gatherings.
Some answers might become clear if we could assess how resilient health systems are in response to crises or shocks, such as the current pandemic and other emergencies, including financial ones, or how well health systems were prepared for such events in the first place.
In response to the detection of the COVID-19 virus in China in December 2019, countries in the WHO European Region have been activating national plans to ensure that health and other systems are not just prepared for but also ready to respond to importation of this new virus.
The new website will systematically map and analyse health system responses to the pandemic across the Region.
During the current outbreak of COVID-19, well-prepared health facilities are at the centre of an effective response.
Speaking with the media alongside Minister Filipche, Dr Kluge reiterated that people should be alert, stay informed, follow personal protective measures and avoid fake news.
When COVID-19 hit the European Region, the ECDC deployed experts in epidemiology to Italy within the WHO/Europe-led mission.
We came here together, fell in love, started our families and had children at the same time.
This support was part of the Emergency Medical Team initiative coordinated by WHO and was organized as a fast track to improving the care of COVID-19 patients in Kyrgyzstan.
Our overstretched health systems cannot bear any outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases.
The aim here is to create structures and processes in those hospitals that will ensure the best possible care for COVID-19 patients.
And my third and final point is this: Thank you for your solidarity.
To this end, WHO/Europe is launching a new initiative, the Health Systems Response Monitor, to map the policy measures taken by countries on an accessible and continuously updated platform.
With this information, we can offer targeted support.
In future contract workers will also be eligible for short-time work allowance.
They then mapped those strategies to the key health system functions: governance, financing, resources and service delivery.
In this situation, we need to remain optimistic, and physically and mentally healthy, as this will be key to our psychological resilience in overcoming this challenge united.
This applies to large sporting events, public festivals and fairs with audiences, larger concerts, music festivals, village, town and street parties, fun fairs and traditional Schützenfeste (annual festivals held by local shooting clubs).
The sound financial policy pursued by the German government in recent years means that it is now in a position to support citizens and industry, even over a longer period.
The Regional Office is in contact with the French authorities.
And yet equally troubling – the way that such care facilities operate, how residents receive care – is providing pathways for the virus to spread.
That’s completely normal," said the Chancellor.
“Volnovakha is located on the highway connecting Donetsk and Mariupol, the 2 largest cities in our province, which meant we always had many cases related to traffic accidents.
“There are no quick wins when transforming a health system, as you are aiming to do here.
These materials are now being translated and distributed in many countries of the Region.
Green line number from outside Romania: +40 21 320 20 20
On completion of the trip, the team held a debriefing with high-level government representatives, including the deputy prime minister and the deputy head of the President’s office.
The impacts of COVID-19 on older people will be the focus of WHO’s next live briefing, to take place at 11:00 CET on Thursday 2 April, streamed live on WHO/Europe’s Facebook page and YouTube channel.
This includes strengthening capacities to find, test and care for patients; to prevent and control infections; and to communicate risks with the public.
Our success in tackling the new coronavirus depends on people being informed, willing and enabled to take the right public health action,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
In addition, parents are to be protected from disadvantages with respect to the amount of parental allowance and in the subsequent calculation of parental allowance if they are currently experiencing a temporary reduction to their income.
ECOFIN (the Economic and Financial Affairs Council) is responsible for EU policy in three main areas: economic policy, taxation issues and the regulation of financial services.
The timeframe for mini-jobs has been extended from 70 to 115 days.
More than 50% of all fatalities involved people aged 80 years or older.
As a result, the easing of lockdown restrictions is prone to short-term change.
The countries of the Region are hugely diverse, and COVID-19 adds extra layers of complexity with differing rates of infection and health system capacities both between and within countries.
COVID-19 is unforgiving and has the ability to overwhelm even the strongest of health systems in Europe, quickly.
As part of WHO’s global response to COVID-19, it has also updated its operational planning guidelines to support the reorganization and maintenance of access to high-quality essential health services for all.
For employees on reduced hours, from 1 May to 31 December 2020 the existing options for generating additional income will be opened up to all occupations, with the limit on the additional income raised to the full amount of the monthly income to date.
To ensure that enterprises remain able to act despite assembly restrictions, the Federal Government has modified corporate law provisions to allow “virtual” general meetings, for example.
Since 17 March, the hotline has expanded to 60 lines and has relocated to the press room of the National Arena, the largest football stadium in Romania.
WHO/Europe is working together with health and food safety authorities in the Region to implement the Strategic Plan for Food Safety including Foodborne Zoonoses 2013–2022.
Many countries in their interventions thanked health-care workers, including nurses and midwives, for their tireless work in their response to the pandemic.
“Whilst every country is responsible for determining the nature and timing of measures introduced to prevent or slow down viral transmission, WHO/Europe considers that social distancing and quarantine measures need to be implemented in a timely and thorough manner.
This increases the chances that healthcare facilities will be equipped to be able to provide safe and quality care.
"And we will be discussing how to proceed after the borders are opened within the Schengen Area," announced the Chancellor.
This step is possible in view of the current trends in case numbers and thanks to the precise overview provided by the register of intensive care beds, states the resolution.
Over recent years, WHO/Europe has developed several documents providing evidence and outlining recommendations on the key contribution and effectiveness of cultural mediators and cultural competency training in improving the accessibility and quality of health care for refugees and migrants.
We wear protective equipment and often have to reassure those who are worried about the virus.”
The dedicated, compassionate people working in long-term care facilities who are so often overstretched, underpaid and unprotected - are the unsung heroes of this pandemic.
Sound budget management in recent years is giving the Federation leeway for providing extensive financial support for the healthcare system, citizens and companies.
In this way jobs are to be saved during the coronavirus pandemic, and lay-offs avoided.
Now, I am grateful I can help patients and doctors bridge the linguistic divide.
The evolving context of food safety requires continued efforts and focus on strengthening national food safety systems.
Regulations regarding parental allowance have been amended for a temporary period.
During the visit, WHO provided technical guidance to support the measures that are already in place.
We now need to be certain, stressed Angela Merkel, "that in spite of the easing of restrictions, people are still respecting the fundamentals – distancing, covering their faces, and being considerate – that is vitally important!"
Likewise, the Republic of Korea, Japan and Singapore have also managed to slow their epidemics and have reported much lower daily case counts in recent weeks.
"The pandemic is a global challenge.
Schools, universities and other educational institutions are facing immense challenges due to the current closures.
The latest figures, she said, give grounds for cautious optimism.
The EPW will be presented at this year’s session of the WHO Regional Committee for Europe and supports the GPW 13.
This enabled 31 countries in the Region to rapidly establish testing capacities.
It is also possible for the time being for pregnancy conflict counselling to take place online and over the phone.
They include the classification of all relevant facilities according to the level of maternal and newborn care they provide, and the linking of these facilities into networks to improve continuity of care and offer risk-stratified care pathways.
It contains valuable information about nutrition to help keep the immune system strong.
Secondly: There is an immediate and urgent need to rethink and adjust how long-term care facilities operate today and in the months to come.
Supplementary agreement to the Digital Compact for Schools
By doing so, we leave no one behind. Thank you.
No joint liability is planned.
Katrine Bach Habersaat Email: habersaatk@who.int
Good morning your Excellencies and thank you for joining this briefing.
Countries must ensure:
The Federation will support schools and pupils in digital lessons at home to the tune of 500 million euros.
The nurses carry out procedures and direct patient care, which is challenging to do from a distance.
They also need to be easily understood and communicated through trusted people and accessible channels.
A WHO tool for rapid, flexible and cost-effective monitoring of public knowledge, risk perceptions, behaviours and trust is now available to countries in the WHO European Region to make their COVID-19-related response relevant and actionable.
I lost my house, my job as a urological doctor at Luhansk hospital, and – the most painful aspect – most of my friends and social ties.
To help strengthen preparedness, WHO/Europe, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) and the French Embassy in Uzbekistan found innovative ways to repurpose machines already in place in the country’s hospitals.
Natural and diverse environments have profound impacts on health and mental well-being.
Regular WHO-hosted webinars provide the Global Shapers network with accurate, timely information plus a behind-the-scenes look at the COVID-19 response.
"In the last few weeks we have demonstrated great strength together.
Some older people may be familiar with digital methods and others may need guidance in how to use them.
“Everyone is chipping in and contributing to the efforts – not only health-care professionals, but also regular citizens.
There, I manage 42 nurses who work directly with the children.
This is, quite simply, a new reality.
In 2019, the hospital started having difficulties with oxygen supply, which is essential for surgery and intensive care units.
It is our human nature to care for one another, as we, in turn, seek the social and emotional support of others.
As European law applies to this sector, the Federal Government has turned to the EU Commission to resolve this issue.
The emergency regulations and the curfew brought certain restrictions to our daily lives.
For the first time today China has reported no new cases of local transmissions, although they did detect and report some imported cases.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on refugees and migrants in 3 distinct ways.
“For COVID-19 patients, the initial respiratory physiotherapy priority is to keep the airway clear and unobstructed of sputum to enable sufficient oxygen to the lungs.
To bring technical support closer to countries in the European Region, WHO teams for emergency preparedness and response support, in 3 geographic hubs, have been strengthened.
It is made up of the economics and finance ministers from all EU member states.
The consultations on Thursday were an interim step, said Angela Merkel.
A large percentage of the funds pledged will go to the World Health Organization (WHO), Gavi the Vaccine Alliance, and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).
Although this is the first remotely conducted technical WHO mission, the idea itself has been in the pipeline for some time.
The Polish clinicians included 3 anaesthesiologists, 3 paramedics, a general practitioner and an intensive care nurse.
It is clear that both health service and society-wide measures put in place to address COVID-19 have had an effect both on the delivery of other health services, and on people accessing such services.
In Bulgaria, WHO works closely with government institutions and with women’s support organizations, such as the NGO Animus, which runs helplines for women and children, as well as protective shelters for victims of abuse.
Understandably, COVID-19 has had an effect on routine service delivery by crowding out other health issues that health systems will need to quickly address.
In view of the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic, a courageous response is needed, stressed Chancellor Angela Merkel when she presented the economic stimulus and future technologies package.
Yet in recent weeks, we have seen many examples of actions by countries and communities to alleviate insecurity, reinforce the social fabric, and support health.
Unfortunately, we cannot say the same for all countries.
We must learn from the mistakes of the past.
And that is why caution is the cardinal rule – along with hygiene measures."
Practically, pharmacies may have to extend opening hours and ensure they have enough staff to cover absences in case of illness.
On the basis of the new regulation, the German Bundestag can determine whether there is an epidemic situation of national importance.
"We have not lost sight of these things, but I am absolutely convinced that it is also in the interests of the economy, and in the interests of social contacts, if we are careful to ensure that we are able to move forward, take steps that we will not subsequently have to retrace.
Between 2008 and 2013, public spending on health per person fell in around half of the countries in our Region.
It does not.
Human impact on the environment is increasing the risk of emerging infectious diseases in humans, over 60% of which originate from animals, mainly from wildlife.
It should not replace medical guidance in case of any health condition.
Through the task force, WHO/Europe, the CEI Executive Secretariat, the countries in the region and experts in various health fields will work together to equip the member states with robust mechanisms to tackle common challenges and strengthen their COVID-19 response, with tangible results for the entire region.
Findings indicate that concern about the economic consequences of the restrictions remains high.
Armenian health authorities have established systems to contain COVID-19 transmission in the country.
As this is a new coronavirus, the global community should continue to demonstrate solidarity and cooperation.
In some countries we see a steady stabilization or decline in new cases.
For example, the Federal Government is contributing 50 million euros to finance the efforts of the World Health Organization (WHO) in the fight against COVID-19.
Experts from WHO/Europe, alongside the Robert Koch Institute, worked with Armenian health authorities on assessing the COVID-19 situation and offered advice on the strategy for easing COVID-19 measures.
All countries should be ready to contain any introduction of the virus and its spread through active surveillance, early detection, isolation and case management, contact tracing, and prevention.
Allow me to provide you with an update on the situation.
Instead, I try to distract myself, to avoid thinking about having been infected or infecting my loved ones.”
The project, which is based on the Sustainable Development Goals, will be launched by June 2020.
Temporary border controls have been introduced at Germany’s borders with a number of neighbouring countries.
By the end of the year, government debt is set to rise to 75.25% of GDP.
Kateryna Balabanova advocates for the rights of nurses in Ukraine
Behaviour insights-tool-chart from WHO Regional Office for Europe
Effective resilience and response will take a joint effort to a shared threat.
The psychological impacts for these populations can include anxiety and feeling stressed or angry.
The pandemic is underscoring the significance of domestic agriculture, which plays a crucial role in ensuring a reliable supply of food.
We are very encouraged in the investment by governments and the international community in this work.
At the meeting they address issues that are of particular relevance for these states and agree on common positions.
He also appealed for countries to focus on protecting the most vulnerable, including older people and those with underlying health conditions, as well as health-care workers who are the most exposed and most essential to the response.
Member states would authorise the European Commission to raise the additional funds "on the market; these will be spent in the short term but repaid over a longer period," explained the Chancellor.
People deprived of their liberty, and those living or working in enclosed environments in their close proximity, are likely to be more vulnerable to the COVID-19 disease than the general population.
Higher liability exemptions (90 percent for SMEs, 80 percent for major companies), higher upper credit limits (up to one billion euros per corporate group) and lower interest rates apply.
“Yet it also offers countries an opportunity to recognize the valuable support – from health-care skills to cultural mediation to producing protective equipment – that refugees and migrants can offer to COVID-19 response efforts.
At the WHO Regional Office for Europe we have been investing all our expertise and passion in supporting European countries in this endeavour.
Even for a well-prepared hospital, coping with the health consequences of a COVID-19 outbreak is a complex challenge.
My thoughts and deepest sympathy are with those grieving from the loss of loved ones or who or are seriously ill themselves.
"All in all we had a very constructive discussion.
I appreciate that this means governmental authorities often face difficult decisions.
So much related to COVID-19 has been unparalleled and is outside our control and understanding.
As always, my thoughts are, first and foremost, with those whose health and well-being have been devastated by the virus.
“Access to vaccines for all has transformed our societies, but it is a public good that must be maintained to be effective, even in difficult times,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
I can only echo the comments of my colleagues on the importance of global solidarity in our collective efforts to address this pandemic.
“Perhaps what is most challenging, is the fact that we must keep a physical distance from our patients, which is made worse by the fact that we are entirely covered.
But human activity – deforestation, intensive and polluting agriculture, and unsafe management and consumption of wildlife and natural resources – is undermining these ecosystem services.
From the time when the first cases of COVID-19 were identified in Wuhan City, China, in December 2019, WHO has been at the forefront of the country’s containment efforts.
“As midwife coordinator, I have always placed special emphasis on my duty to listen to the midwives under my guidance – now, more than ever.
In many countries, older people are facing the most threats and challenges at this time.
Life as we knew it, was put on hold.
Viorica is one of 18 000 nurses currently working against COVID-19 in the Republic of Moldova.
Is the money to be available for an unlimited period, and what is to be financed?
500 billion euros are to be provided to particularly hard hit member states as grants and 250 billion euros as loans.
Evidence shows that interpersonal violence tends to increase during every type of emergency.
This virus has not gone.
The hotline started with five operating lines that were scaled up to 15 within a few days.
The Emergency Committee, convened on 22 and 23 January 2020 under the International Health Regulations (IHR 2005), considered that it is still too early to declare the 2019-nCoV outbreak in China a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC).
This puts Germany in the first division internationally, and it even has spare capacity.
The COVID-19 pandemic is placing an extraordinary burden on all countries around the world.
“In times of crisis it sometimes feels paralyzing,” points out Derya Vollings, Communications Officer for the Copenhagen Global Shapers hub. “Knowing you can take action and feeling like you are contributing is important.”
A: It is far too early to declare this outbreak under control.
Experience of health professionals, police staff and prisoners in Italy informs WHO COVID-19 guidelines for prisons
The WHO expert team travelled to Belarus last week to support the Ministry of Health in preparing the country for its COVID-19 response.
We can all benefit from evidence of measures that have been found to be effective.
We are living through an exceptional time, when every one of us has been called upon to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
WHO also commissioned the manufacturing of test kits for global distribution to the designated 2019-nCoV laboratories.
Mental health during anxious times is also a key consideration.
Looking to the future, and transitioning to a new normal, we have a clear investment case for setting up integrated, person-centred, long-term care systems in each country.”
The Government of Azerbaijan is contributing to global efforts to address COVID-19, coordinating with neighbouring countries, and has pledged US$ 5 million to WHO’s strategic preparedness and response plan.
Angela Merkel once again made it clear that, "What we are seeing is still only the start of the pandemic.
In this way, the risk of infection among those in need of care and nursing staff will be kept as low as possible.
With job losses, rising alcohol-based harm and drug use, stress and fear, the legacy of this pandemic could haunt us for years.
With a view to tomorrow’s Euro Group meeting, the Chancellor declared that the European Union is facing "the greatest test since it was first founded", with all member states affected by the Corona pandemic.
We are grateful to the national authorities in Azerbaijan for an intensive week of working together on challenges and solutions.
This will help ensure that people continue to seek care when appropriate and adhere to public health advice.
According to Federal Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, the European Union will be giving "three strong responses" to the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic.
The vast majority of patients around the world is in China, and China’s strategy to contain the outbreak at its epicentre is proving effective, with only a few hundred cases so far in the rest of the world.
High-level meetings were held with the President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vučić, and with the Prime Minister Ana Brnabić.
Dr Kluge acknowledged the country’s efforts and the Prime Minister’s commitment to ensuring the right conditions for health workers – including prioritizing a salary increase.
"We want to tackle uncertainty by providing factual information," said Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn.
WHO/Europe, along with the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), and the Israeli government joined forces to help countries manage the gradual shifting of COVID-19 measures.
Businesses with between 11 and 50 employees receive up to 500,000 euros, businesses with more than 50 employees up to 800,000 euros.
protecting the health of the population.
Stories of hope as refugees help tackle the COVID-19 pandemic
Now we have 41 countries that are able to do this through work that has been done by governments and with the support of WHO and Africa’s CDC.
I now live with the constant terror of infecting others and prefer to avoid thinking of work after a shift.
“After I was infected, I was deeply saddened by people’s stigmatizing attitude in my village, towards my family and myself.
Today, as WHO/Europe’s Standing Committee of the Regional Committee met, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, briefed the group on the rapid escalation of COVID-19 in the WHO European Region, now placing it at the centre of this pandemic.
Dealing with infection outbreaks in detention settings, with people staying near each other, has never been easy.
The adverse health effects of hot weather are largely preventable through good public health practice, while also following the advice to protect yourself from COVID-19.
Dr Kluge has committed to holding briefings with the diplomatic corps every two weeks.
By looking at these country examples, lessons can be drawn on how to create more resilient, better quality services in the future.
Exceptions to this rule include occupational groups engaged in cross-border trade, commuters and those travelling for work, as well as those crossing Germany in transit.
Our health systems and services are valued like never before.
This is the most efficient market instrument for reducing emissions.
Good morning.
But following social and physical distancing measures introduced some weeks ago, we are now seeing evidence of a plateau or reduction in the number of new cases.
The package takes into account the needs of the company, while not losing sight of the interests of the tax-payer and of the Lufthansa Group’s workforce, which is dependent on Lufthansa remaining strong.
Communicating effectively with the public and engaging with communities, local partners, and other stakeholders to help prepare and protect individuals, families and the public’s health during early response to COVID-19, is essential to our collective success in this pandemic.
In addition to this, ambassadors were advised to remember the mental health of their populations, particularly those suffering from loneliness, existing mental health conditions, domestic violence and chronic illnesses, who may be in lockdown or self-isolation.
On the occasion of World Food Safety Day 2020, WHO/Europe is taking the opportunity to remind everyone about the Five Keys to Safer Food:
WHO/Europe has also developed a web survey to support countries in assessing the implementation of the WHO interim guidance on preparedness, prevention and control of COVID-19 in prisons.
The organiser must inform customers that they are entitled to choose between a voucher and immediate reimbursement.
This will take perseverance and patience, there is no fast-track back to normal.
Finding ways to stay socially connected is even more important for this age group as many do not have easy access to digital platforms.
In conjunction with possible assistance to revitalise the economy in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, the Chancellor said it was important not to economise on climate action but rather to invest in the technologies of the future.
Course participants appreciate this clear, step-by-step approach, and the chance to familiarize themselves with the latest WHO guidance and strategies for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19.
During the debriefing with the Minister of Health and his team, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe, reiterated WHO’s support to the country to overcome the challenges posed by the outbreak.
This year, World Environment Day on 5 June focuses on “Time for nature” by celebrating biodiversity and calling for its preservation.
On 30 January 2020, the WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, declared the current outbreak a public health emergency of international concern.
This pandemic has shone a spotlight on the overlooked and undervalued corners of our society.
“Boldest actions” should include community action.
The Fund is to enable the EU to provide the member states worst hit by the pandemic with funds within the framework of its own budget – in the form of grants, not loans.
Since January 2020, through a series of trainings and simulation exercises, as well as delivery of personal protective equipment (PPE) and test kits, the Ministry of Health of Kyrgyzstan, in collaboration with WHO and partners, has been taking measures to ensure the country is better equipped to respond to a COVID-19 outbreak.
Chancellor Angela Merkel stressed that a Recovery Fund too must "naturally comply with the European Treaties and European budgetary law".
It’s up to us now. Thank you.
By declaring the outbreak a PHEIC, WHO has emphasized the urgent need to coordinate international efforts to investigate and better understand 2019-nCoV, to minimize the threat in affected countries and to reduce the risk of further international spread. “We are all in this together and we can only stop it together,” the Director-General emphasized.
The simplified application can be submitted by email.
Patients often start their rehabilitation programme needing assistance with the most basic therapy activities, such as requiring the physical help of 2 therapists to even just sit up for a couple of minutes or attempt to stand with the support of an assistive product.
I urge countries to continue prioritizing immunization, innovating services, communicating to parents and meticulously tracking every single missed vaccination.
This document explains how four key components together contribute to managing such transitions and balancing restrictive measures.
I am in very close contact with my fellow Regional Directors Dr Kluge and Dr Moeti —we are exchanging experiences and staff, and we consider ourselves as one team in responding to COVID-19, together with our colleagues at WHO Headquarters.
Staying healthy over the next phase of COVID-19 is everybody’s business.
In order to prevent disadvantages for young academics, the rules on fixed-term contracts applicable in academia and higher education will be amended.
As these figures demonstrate: the situation across our Region is not uniform.
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres recently noted that COVID-19 is presenting us with an opportunity “to use the recovery to build back better” – not only socially and economically, but also by addressing urgent environment and climate change concerns.
“The fact that we already had this network in place of people who knew and trusted each other made it possible to find solutions,” says Marilys Corbex, Senior Technical Officer on noncommunicable diseases, WHO/Europe. “The information and expertise we provided helped authorities in Uzbekistan to better understand their options.”
As part of a global strategy and campaign to end violence against women and children, WHO has developed extensive catalogues of evidence-based recommendations and guidelines.
This also applies, of course, to our internal collaboration within WHO.
The Federation assumes 100 percent liability for the loans from their banks.
This is currently the case, for example, in two regions of the WHO Regions for Health Network: the Kaunas Region in Lithuania and the Žilina Self-governing Region in Slovakia.
Looking at the big picture and remaining cautious
Using this exercise, I hope to increase our response planning and implement IPC in our hospitals to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” she concluded.
We have to understand what this means for the vulnerability among our populations.
The primary objective is to strengthen the resilience of the member states, join forces in dismantling disinformation campaigns and improving coordination of the support provided by member states.
The mission is facilitated by the WHO Country Office in Azerbaijan, which provides leadership on international health and ongoing guidance and support to national authorities and partners on a range of health issues.
Every passenger can also take additional steps independently to protect themselves and others from infection.
She thanked the European Region and its Member States for their continuing support.
There have been encouraging achievements, declared the Chancellor.
“I believe we need to further develop nursing education and inspire a new generation to engage in this profession.
After the initial risk communications about the virus and personal protective measures, some of our more recent campaigns have been focused on preventing a resurgence, with topics like safely returning to work and school; encouraging people to pay attention to their mental health after 2 months of self-isolation; reminding people of the importance of healthy diets and habits, like not smoking; and so on.
Health care systems should not abandon their weaker and more vulnerable populations, as their responsibility is to care for everyone.
What type of liability is planned?
Extremely dynamic situation
“COVID-19 is a new virus that we need to take very seriously.
It uses artificial intelligence to answer questions about COVID-19, and provides local information such as COVID-19 hotlines available in European and central Asian countries.
Being launched as a pilot with selected country data, HSRM will be updated regularly with information from all countries in the Region.
The resulting leverage effect means that a safety net can be put in place for a volume of business totalling around 400 billion euros.
This reflects the extreme diversity among our Member States.
Contributions would be in line with the usual key for member states’ contributions, said Angela Merkel.
“A safe place to ask questions” is how course co-leader Ms Ana Paula Coutinho Rehse describes the online forum that she and Dr Dina Pfeifer set up to deliver trainings on managing COVID-19 patients.
Cooperation and preparedness were the key messages as ambassadors from Member States across the WHO European Region met in Copenhagen, Denmark, on 2 March 2020 for a briefing on the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak.
The Federal Government is funding a research network of German university hospitals to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic with an additional 150 million euros.
It is important we do this together, learn from each other and harmonize our efforts.
Germany has a robust healthcare system, also in comparison with other countries.
The exercise provided an opportunity to address some of the issues that may not have come up otherwise.”
Journalists also ask me about ending lockdowns – how safe will it be and what will it look like?
Furthermore, nationwide exemptions to working hours regulations have been adopted.
A modification was also agreed to the existing Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) loan programme.
“The lives of millions of people in our Region are undergoing radical change. There is, quite simply, a new reality.
Before the COVID-19 outbreak, police officers and health care workers had a different approach to prison inmates.
Germany and France propose establishing an effective, targeted Recovery Fund worth 500 billion euros, that would operate for a limited period.
We know that with strong action, it is possible to push this virus back.
Almost 900 deployments through GOARN mechanisms were from institutions based in the WHO European Region.
Intensive medical care for patients with severe COVID-19 symptoms was guaranteed at all times even in areas with regional infection hotspots.
The visit provided a better insight into the measures already taken for early detection and prevention of spread of the COVID-19 virus.
In recent weeks, the Federal Government has adopted over 50 individual measures at the national level.
Let us ensure a minimum distance to others, keep washing our hands, and respect the need to protect others. "I am absolutely convinced that if we keep rigorously to this, and thus prevent any backsliding, we will all benefit."
“The first case of the novel coronavirus in Ukraine was identified in our province in early March and there are now 143 people diagnosed with COVID-19 here.
My parents and grandparents were doctors, and my great grandmother worked first as a midwife and then as chief nurse in Luhansk Province.
The Chancellor pointed to the employment figures published on Thursday, and to the drastic economic repercussions of the pandemic.
This current large-scale operation demonstrates unity among the governments and health institutions of different countries in the face of this pandemic,” said Mr Pat Drury, GOARN Manager.
